---
documento_id: DOC_IRRIGACAO_FAO_002
titulo: Water quality for agriculture - FAO Irrigation and drainage paper 29 Rev. 1
instituicao: FAO
autores: R. S. Ayers; D. W. Westcot
ano: 1985
url_original: https://www.fao.org/4/t0234e/t0234e.pdf
arquivo_original: originais/fao/DOC_IRRIGACAO_FAO_002.pdf
sha256: 62f501f411efdcbe1c20977e9481038021591ebaedfe29490482d26078ddbca2
data_acesso: 2026-06-13
tipo_extracao: OCR
possiveis_falhas_ocr: true
revisao_humana: true
--------------
--- PÁGINA 1 ---
Water quality
for agriculture 59
- \ \ uu a

--- PÁGINA 2 ---


--- PÁGINA 3 ---
F
3
Lig
by
RS. Ayers
Soil and Water Specialist (Emeritus)
University of California
Davis, California, USA
and
D.W. Westcot
Senior Land and Water Resources Specialist
California Regional Water Quality Control Board
Sacramento, California, USA

--- PÁGINA 4 ---
he dvanations amped snd 0 remain

Ren do

Be oFoud at Atune Orson

5 Uri or crm ep

Sn of Comin erry, oy es

Cn Sin

aN 9251022821
A igs rev No pat of his oblscion may be epee.
Sd eee pn ore Tomo oy
irene man, SRorscopyrg & Sitwie wireu Ba Mo:
ves i cara oun Aopen fo un pam:
hon oe Dvir, Pepin Dion, Foot nd A ction
ino of he Une Navar,  ete Tere Cost, 00100
fr
© £0 1085

--- PÁGINA 5 ---
ererace

Water Quality for Ageiculzare was first published in 1976 as
Irrigation and Drainage Paper 29. Aliiough many of the basic concepts
of salinity control ans aealing with poor quality water remain the
sane, new data and oxporiorca Fave prcapted us to revine the 1976 paper
n75racr vo keep tne weer up to dath.

The document is now presente: as a field guide for evaluating
the suitability of a wazer for Irrigation. Included ace suggestions for
obtaining maximum utilisation of an existing or zatential water supply.
Guideliné valuos given identify a potertial problem water sased on
Boss iblo. restrictions in uae related to 1) salinity, 2) rate of water
ingileration into the sail, 3) a specific ion toxicity, or 4) to some
other miscellancous effects. Discussions and examples are given along
with possible managemert slterna:ives to feal With thess potential
Prolees.

This paper is intended to provide guidance to farm and project
managers, conaultana and eagincers In valuaticg and identifying
potential problems related to water quality. It discusses possible
Pdstrictions on the wse of the weir an: presents management’ options
which may assist in farm or project maragorsnt, planting and operation.
Tho Guidelines and discussions ars based of reported experiences gained
Ero many farm areas througnau: the world, mostly in arid and semi-arid
areas. A vast maiority of the fata’ naw come fron agriculture in the
Western United States, thersfors, caution and a critical attitude
should be taken whon applying tho juiielires to specific local condi-
Tions. The guidelines Can iailcaté posential problems asd possible
restrictions “on use of the water but ‘tho true suitability of a given
water depends on the Specific conditions of use and on the management
Capability of the user. The guiceiines should be useful in placing
Vater quality effects in perspective with tne other factors affecting
Crop production, the witimeze goal being to ontain maximu production
bor unit of available water.

Salinity de gimcussad ror tae standpoint of a reduction n
Soil-uater availability to too crop. fecent rsearch findings on plant
response to salinity within tho root zone have been incorporated into
the’ guidelines to iearove their predictive capability. lpdated crop
tolerance values have also becore available anc are included. A method
is ‘presences for calculating tho leaching requirement for the crop
considering the quality of water available values calculated by this
procedure, if adopted, represent ar aporeciable water saving as
Compared to most older procedures.

A water infiltracion sroblen relates to water quality is usually
associated with both the Salinity ard sodium content of the waters A
procedure is presented to evaluate tno potential of 4 water to cause an
Uniltration problem based on a combination of its salinity (ic, and
sodium adsorofion ratio (SAR).

A specific ion toxicity 1s discussed as to the concentration of
boron, sodium or chloride and saeir offect on yield Of Sensitive crops.
Other las frequently encourtored problems aro’ discussed ar miscollane-
ous” problems. Tables Showing recomnended aximum corcentrations of
trace elements for irrigation water and for toxic substances in
drinking water for Livestock are also presented.

--- PÁGINA 6 ---
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

These guidelines are based on various preceding
guidelines developed and used in Lerigated agriculture in
Tho Western United States. The format follows that used
by’ the stalr of the University of California, USA. Many
of the basic data and the concepts of saline water use and
management have been developed of proposed by tne US
Salinity Laboratory ana the authors would like 0 express
Their grateful appreciation for this help, particularly to
bes. G13. Hoffman, E.V. Maas, J.D. Rhoades, D.L. Suare:,
andthe Laboratory Director, J. van Schilfgaardo.

Des. RL. Branson and 3.0. Oster (University of
California), Dr. 3. Van Hoorn (Wageningen) We. 3.5.
boorenbos (Winistry of Agriculture, The Retheriands), and
Staff Gf the Land and Water Development Division (FAG)
have been particularly helpful with suggestions and draft
eviews. Thanks are also due to: Cheissl Smith-Redtorn,
Hazel Tonkin, Charlene Arora and Mary Westcot.

The paper is dedicated to the fisld person who must
make docisfons on tho ecfective use Of irrigation water.
This paper attempts to fake the solution and prevantion of
water quality problems to the fisld. The ultimate goal is
that of maximum 00d production from the available supply
of water.

Nore:

In running text where synbols are used, o.g. ECdw, for
mechanical reasons they have been typed level on the line.
Howovor, they appoar correctly in the equations where
greater Flexibility is possible e.3. Co.

--- PÁGINA 7 ---
cowzirs
Page
protace in
Acknowledgenents iv
WATER QUALITY EVACUATION N
11 Introduction 1
112 water Guality problems H
12.1 salinity 3
11212 Water inciizrazion rate i
1205 Texieity i
11214 wiscollancous 5
1.3 approach to Evaluating Water Guality 5
14 water ouality Guidelifes ‘
2. SALINITY BrosLES 1
2.1 Introduction 13
22 Build-up of Soil salirity 13
213 salinity steects or. Crops 15
24 Managonént of Salinity Problems 2
2.4.1 drainage 23
31402 Salinity control by leaching 23
21413 Crop tolerance so Salinity 2
21413 cultural practices a
21415 Changing methods of irrigazicn a
20416 Land development for aa) nity control 52
20417 Changing or blending water supplies 36
3. INFILTRATION bioBLENS ss
3.0 The Infiltration srobler so
3.0.1 filtration problem evaluation sa
3.2 Management of Intilizaticn 2roblens os
3.2.1 Soi) and waze: amendrer:a os
31312 lending water Supplies 7
3123 Cultivation and deep tillage i
30214 organic residues 7
31315 Trrigation management 7%
4. ToxiciTy proBLEMS ”
4.1 specific Ions ard Their kefects ”
400 chloride 7
$1l2 seater 79
$05 over a

--- PÁGINA 8 ---
wi
4.2 Management of Toxicity Problems a
4.2.1 Leaching 5
$1212 crop selection 56
4213 cultural practices 56
41214 Blending vater supplies Ed
4.3 Toxicity Effects due to Sprinkler Irrigation wr
5. MISCELLANEOUS PROBLEMS El
5.1 Excess Nitrogen a
52 Abnormal pi 22
3.3 Scale Deposits 95
54 Magnesium Problems 90
3.5 Trace Elesents and Their Toxicity 95
5.5.1 Natural occurrence In water 9
51512 Toxicities 38
51513 Evaluation criteria 97
5.6 Nutrition and Water Quality 9
5.6.1 Nutrition and salinity 97
36:2 water infiltration problems and nutrition 8
3613 Ruericion and towicity 95
51614 miscellaneous 9
5.7 Clogging Problems in Localized (Drip) Irrigation Systems 99
3.6 Corrosion and Encrustation 104
5.8.1 Metal corrosion 108
51812 Concrete corrosion 105
5.9 Vector Problems Associated with Water Quality 107
6. WATER QUALITY FOR LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY m
5.1 Introduction mw
&12 Use of Saline Water for Livesteck m
613 Toxic Substances in Livestock Water 14
7. IRRIGATION WATER QUALITY AND WASTEWATER RE-USE nr
8. EXPERIENCES USING WATER OF VARIOUS QUALITIES 11
8.0 Introduction am
8.2 Protection of Irrigation Water Quality
Sacranento-san Joaquin Delta, USA nm
5.3 Re-use of Agricultural rainage Water
~“uroadview water District, Ush 122
8.4 Use of an Excoptionally Low Salinity Water
="eelant orn Canal, San Joaquin Valley,
California, Ush 123

--- PÁGINA 9 ---
8.5 High Bicarbonate Water Used for Overhead Sprinkler
Irrigation - Denver, Colorado, USA 123
8.6 Use of Poor Quality Water - Bahrain 124
8.7 Drainage Problems - Imperial Valley, California, USA 125
8.8 Need for Drainage - Tigris-Euphrates River Basin, Iraq 126
8.9 High Salinity Water - Arizona, USA 126
8.10 Use of Agricultural Drainage Water for Production
of Selected Crops - Imperial Valley and fan
Joaquin Valley, California, USA 12
8.11 Uso of Marginal Quality Water - Medjerda Valley,
Tunisia 129
8.12 Use of Poor Quality Water for Irrigation
United Arab Emirates 129
8.13 Irrigation Water Quality - Lake Chad, Africa 130
8.18 miver Water Quality Variations - Ethiopia and Somalia 132
8.15 Groundwater Degradation - Wadi Dhuleil, Jordan 132
8.16 Surface Water Quality Degradation - Yemen Arab Republic 133
8.17 Sediment in the Irrigation Water Supply - Ethiopia 133
8.18 High Fluoride in Animal Drinking Water - New Mexico, USA 135
8.19 Poor Quality Groundwater for Livestock Drinking Water
“New Hexica, USA 13
8.20 £rosno Irrigation Scheme Using Treated Wastewater
= California, usa 1s
4.21 Agricultural Use of Treated wastewater
~hraunschwoig, #k Germany 139
8.22 Wastewater Irrigation - Bakersfield, California, USA 140
8.23 Wastowator Irrigation - Tuolumne Regional Water
District, California, UsA 1
8.28 Irrigation with Wastowstor - Santa Rosa, California, USA 142
8.25 Use of wastevater High in Boron - Calistoga,
california, USA 144
Annex T Table - Water analysis of 250 selected irrigation
Supplies from varicus locations in the world us
Annex 11 Glossary 159
REFERENCES 163

--- PÁGINA 10 ---


--- PÁGINA 11 ---
List oF TABLES
Page

1. Guidelines for interpretations of water quality for

Terigation 5
2. Laboratory determinations needed to evaluate common

irrigation water quality problems 10
3. Concentration factors (X) for predicting soil salinity

(EC) from irrigation water salinity (EC,) and the

Leaning Traction (LF) 18
4. Crop tolerance and yield potential of selected crops as

influenced by irrigation water salinity (5c,) or soil

aint Tacs) n
5. selative salt tolerance of agricultural crops 3
6. Guidelines for interpreting laboratory data on water

suitability for grapes “©
7. selative salt tolerance of various crops at germination ©
8. effect of planting rates on seedling establishment of

Crops sprinkle- irrigated With gitferent quality

“ater in tara] “
9. melative effect of fertilizer materials on the soil

salution 8
10. Water quality from blended canal and well water 50
Ll. calcium concentration (Ca,) expected to remain in

fear-surface soil-uater *following irrigation with

water of given HCOy/Ca ratio and EC, El
12. Water and soil amendnento and their relative

effectiveness in supplying calcium 0
13. Average composition and equivalent acidity or

basicity of fertilizer materials n
16. Chloride tolerance of some fruit crop cultivars and

Footatocks ”
15. Relative tolerance of selected crops to exchangeable sodium 80
16. Relative boron tolerance of agricultural crops 02
17. Citrus and stone fruit rootstocks listed in order of

(ncraasing boron accunuiation ang transport to leaves
16. Relative tolerance of salected crops to foliar injury

fron saline water applisd by sprinklers
19. Loaf burn on alfalfa with three rates of water

Spplicacion by sprinkler irrigation in Imperial

Whey, california 5
20. sodium content in cotton leaves in percent oven dry weight 89
21. Recommended maximum concentrations of trace elements

TN Terigation water %
22. Physical, chemical and biological contributors to

logging or localized (rip) irrigation systens a

elated to irrigation vater quality 100
23. Standara water quality tests needed for design and

Speration of localized (drip) irrigation ystems 100

--- PÁGINA 12 ---
24. Influence of water quality on the potential for clogging

problems in localized (drip) irrigation systems 101
25. Procedure for calculation of phe 103
26. Chlorine dosages for control of biological growths 104
27. Limit values for evaluating the aggressivity of water

nd soil to concrete 106
28. water quality guide for livestock and poultry uses m2
20. Suggested limits for magnesium in drinking water for

Tivantocn nm
30. Guidelines for levels of toxic substances in livestock

drinking vater ne
31. Existing standards governing the use of renovated

water in agriculture 18
32. Treatment processes suggested by the orld Health

Organization for wastewater re-use ns
33. Selected crop yleld from the Safford Experiment Station

22 Compared to’ average farm yields 1
34. Red Mountain Farms lint cotton yields (kg/ha) It
35. Salinity of tne Nedjerds River at EL Aroussia,

Tunisia’ (monthly mean in d5/m) 129
36. Effect of irrigation method on tomato yield (kaha) 130
37. Effect of irrigation method on sodium and chloride

Concontration of the follage of lenon troes (ary

SOIGhE basis) 150
38. Trace element concentrations of threo water supply

wells in'solectad areas Of New Mex.co, USA 136
39. Fluoride in weld vater in ng/) 136
40. Salt and trace element content of a cattle water source 137
41. Water analyses for the Agua Negra Ranch (ma/1) 158
42. Trace clement concentrations in Freano municipal

wastovator 139
43. water quality in and around the Braunschweig treated

wastovater ute ares 140
44. Trace element concentrations In wastewater from the

Tuolumne Regional Wator District 102
45. Trace olement and nutrient content of wastewater from

the City of Santa Rosa 13

--- PÁGINA 13 ---
LIST OF FIGURES
Page

1. Nomogram for determining the SAR value of irrigation

water and for estimating the corresponding ESP value

SE a 001 that is at equilibrium with the vater n
2. salinity profile expected to develop after long-term

uss of water of BC, = 1.0 dS/m at various leaching

Factions (Le) © ¥ 1
3. soil moisture retention curves for a clay loam soil

3% varying degrees of soil salinity (Cy) 20
4. Change in salinity of soll-water (EC,) between

rridacions’or alfalfa dus to ET use®or stored water 20
5. salinity profile with a high water table 2
6. Relation between capillary flow velocity and depth of

water table 2
7. Effect of applied water salinity (EC_) upon root zone

Soil salinity (ec,) at various “leaching fractions 25
8. Soll salinity (KC,) of a sandy-loam soil boforo and

after 150 mn of rainfall 2
9. Soll salinity (EC) profiles st the end of the irrigation

Season and after winter rainfall in citrus plantings 2
10. Divisions for relative salt tolerance ratings of

agricultural crops 3
11. Method of determining maximum EC, i
12. Flat top beds and irrigation practice a
13. Salinity control with sloping beds as
14. sloping seedvods I
15. Sloping seedbeds used for salinity and temperature control 46
16. Bed shapes and salinity effects a
17. Sale accumulation pattecns for a) surface flooding,

b) furrow irzigation, c) border irrigation, and

4) locatizea irrigation .
16. Influence of the irrigation systes on the soll salinity

pattern and yield of Boll pepper at two levels of

Terigation vater quality 2
19. Dopth of leaching wator por unit dopth of soil required

Co reciain a saline soil by continuous ponding 5
20. oeptn of leaching water per unit depth of soil required

Vo reciain a saline soil by ponding water intermittently 54
21. Relative rato of water infiltration ss affocted by

S31TA1YY ana sodium adsorption ratio 00

--- PÁGINA 14 ---
22. Depth of leaching water per unit depth of soil required

£0 reclaim a oil inherently high in boron 8s
23. Heavy metal content of the soil profile after 80 years

Of irrigation with vastevater 9s
24. Concentration factor from applied water (C,) to soil

saliniey" (EC) "unger subirrigation on “organic

peatland in “tne Sacramento-Sendosquin Delta;

California, Usa 122
25. Electrical conductivity of Lake Chad from 26 February

£010 Apri 1967 1m

LIST OF EXAMPLES

1. Calculation of concentration of deep percolation from

the ‘Botton of the root sone 1
2. Determination of average root zone salinity 1
3. Leaching requirement calculation 2
4. Determination of yield potentisl 3
5. Blending irrigation water for maize 57
6. Comparison of methods to calculate the sodium hazard

of 4 water 6
7. Use of gypsun as an amendment @
8. Blending irrigation water to reduce the SAR of a

poor quality supply ”

--- PÁGINA 15 ---
Cae
1. WATER QUALITY EVALUATION
1.1 nTeobucTION

Irrigated agriculture in dependert on ar adequate water supply of
usable ‘quality. Water qualizy concerns have often buen neglected
because 000 quality water Supplies nave been plentigul and readily
available. This situation is now changirg in mary areas. Intensive use
of nearly all good quality supplies wane that ew irFigation projects
ana ola ‘projects soaking now or supplessntal supplies must rely on
lower quality and loss Sesirasle sources, To avoid prosiens when using
theso poor quality water supplics, nave must bo’ sound planning to
ensure that the quality of water available is pat to the best use.

The objective of this paver is to kelp the reader to a better
understanding of che SEfect of water Guality upon Soil and crops and to
assist in solacting suizablo alternatives to cone with potential water
Quality related probles that might reduce production unger prevailing
Sonditions of user

Conceptually, water quality refors to the characteristics of a
water supply that will influsnce its maltasilicy for a specific use,
§TeT nou we) the ‘quality meets ihe nesds of the user: Quality it
deEined by Cortain physical, chemical and biological characteristics.
Even a parsonal praference sich as taste 1s a simple evaluation of
acceptability. for example, if tws Grinking Watoes of squaily good
Quality are available, peosle may express a precerence for ane supply
Father than tho other) tho bustor casting wator becomes the proferred
Supply. In irrigation water evaluation, cephasis is placed on the
chemical and physical charsctaristics of the water and only rarely are
any other factors considered important.

Specieic uses have differont quality needs ard ono water supply
is considered nore acceptable (of better quality) if it produces berter
results or causes fewor problems than ar 4lterrative water supply. For
Gxanple, 5000 quality river wiser which can se used successfully for
irrigation may, because of itu sediwort load, bo unacceptable for runi-
cipal use without treatment to romovs cae sedirent. Similarly, snowmelt
ater Of excellent quality for municipal use may be too Corrosive for
Tnaustrial use without treatment to reduce its corrosion potential.

The {deal situation is to have several supplies from wich to
make a Selection, out roraally only one supply ie available. In this
Casa, “the quality of the available Supply muse be evalsated to see how
Tics "ono intended use. Most of Ene experience in using water of
differant qualitios has bean gained rom observations and detailed
Study of problems that develo following use. he cause and effect
Folationsnip atweon a water constituont and tho observed problem thon
results in an evaluation of quality ar degree of acceptability. With
SuEficiont Toported experiences and aeasred responses, certain
Constituents emerge as indicators of quality-related prosiess. Thess
Characteristics are then organized into guidelines related to suit
bility for use. Each new sat of guidelines builds upon the previous
Set to improve the predictive capasilizy. Numerous such Guidelines have
become available covering many types of Use.

There have been a nusoer of Giffsront water quality guidelines
related to irrigated agricilturs. Kach has peer useful but none has
been entirely satisfactory because of the wide variability in ficld
Conditions, Hopefully. sach new se: of guidelines has improved our
predictive capability. The Guidelines presented in this paper nave
Felled hoavily on previous ones but are red fied to 3ive mors practical

--- PÁGINA 16 ---
I.
procedures for evaluating and managing water quality-related problems
OF irrigated agriculturs. They are an updated version of those in the
T976 edition of this paper. Changes from the 1976 edition are discussed
in the appropriate sections of the paper.
1.2 WATER QUALITY PROBLEWS

Wator used for irrigation can vary greatly In quality depending
upon type and quantity of dissolved salts. Salts are present in irri:
gation Water in relatively small but significant amounts. They origi-
fate” from Glssolution or weathering of the rocks and soil, including
Gissolution of lime, Gypsum and other slowly dissolved soil minerals:
These salts are carried with the water to wherovor it is used: In the
case’ of irrigation, the salts are applied with the water and remain
behind in the Soil a5 water evaporates or is used by the crop.

The suitability of a water for irrigation is determined not only
by the total amount of salt present but also by the King of salt.
Various soil and cropping problems develop as the total salt content
increases, and special management practices may be required to maintain
acceptable crop yields. Wator quality or Suitability for use ie Judged
Gn the potential severity of problems that can be expected to develop
uring long-corn use.

The problems that result vary both in kind and degree, and are
modified by Soil, climate and crop, fs well as by the Skill and
knowledge Of ‘the Water user, As a result, there is ho Set limit on
water quality rather, ite Suitability for use is determined by tho
Conditions of use which affect the accumulation of the water can
stituents and wnich may restrict crop yield. Tha soil problems most
Commonly encountered and used as a basis to evaluate water quality are
Chose related to salinity, water infiltration rate. toxicity and a
Group of other miscellaneous problems.

ATER QUALLTY-SKIATED PROSLENS 1X LERIGATED AGRICULTURE

savy
Seles tn sot] or water reduce water svatlability to the zap
£0 auch an extent that yield fo affected.

ATER INPLTRATION RATE
Relatively high sodium or low calcium content of soil ox wter
Foduces the race 4 Uhich irrigation vater enters ofl to such
2 Cxlent’ fiat ucticiont veter connor be infiltrated fo
SLppLy the crop adequately from age <reigacion to the set.

SeRCTPIC oN ToRICITY
Certeta toms (soltum, chloride, or Sorom) from sof] or witer
CCumiate in a seasitive crop to concentrations Bgh shough
£5 cause crop damage and reduca yields.

scrLAIS
Excessive nutrients reduce yield or quality umsighely
igoaies on Fruit or folisge raluce marketability: excessive
Cotrorton of equipment increases safntensnce snd repairs.

--- PÁGINA 17 ---
I.
1.2.0 saliniey

A salinity problem exists if salt accumulates in the crop root
zone to a concentration that causes a loss in yield. In irrigated
reas, these salts often originate from a saline, high water table or
Ero salts in the applied water. Yield reductions occur when the salts
accumulate in the root ome to such an extent that the crop is mo
Longer able to extract sufficient water from the salty Soil solution,
resulting in a water stress for a significant period of time. If water
Uptake 15 appreciably reduced, the plant slows its rate of growth. The
plant symptoms are similar in appearance to those of Grought, such ar
Wilting, or a darker, blulsh-green colour and Sometimes thicker, waxier
Teaves: Symptoms vary With the growth stage, being more noticeable if
the salts’ affect the plant during the early stages of grosth. In some
Cases, mild salt effects may go entirely unnoticed because of a uniform
reduction in Growth across an entire field.

Salts that contribute to a salinity problem are water soluble
ana readily transported by water. A portion ‘of the salts thar accumu
Tate trom rior irrigations can be moved (leached) below the rooting
Gepth Lf more irrigation water infiltrates the Soil than is used by tne
Crop during the crop season. Leaching is the key to controlling a water
Quality related salinity problem. Over a period of Lime, salt removal
By” leaching must equal or exceed the sali additions from the sppiied
water "to prevent salt builaing up to o damaging concentration. The
amount “of "leaching required is dependent upon the irrigation water
Guality and the salinity tolerance of the crop grown:

Salt content of the root zone varies with depth. It varies from
approximately that of the irrigation vater near the soil Surface to
many times that of the applied water at the bottom of the rooting
Gepth. Salt concentration increases with depth dus to plants extracting
ater but leaving salts benind in a greatly reduces volume of soil
ater. Fach subsequent irrigation pusies (leaches) the salts deeper
Theo the root zone where they continue to accumulate until leached. The
Lower rooting ‘Gepth salinity will depend upon the leaching that has
occurred.

Following an irrigation, the most readily available water is in
the upper root fone ~ 4 low salinity area. An the crop uses water, the
upper root zone becomes depleted and the zone Of most readily available
water changes toward the Jesper parts as the time interval between
Trrigacions is extended. Thesa lower depths are usually more salty. Fhe
crop. does not respond to the extremes of low or high salinity in the
Tooting depth but integrates ater availability and takes water from
Wherever It is most readily available. Irrigation timing is thus
Important in maintaining o Nigh Soil-water availability and reducing
che problems caused when fhe Crop must draw a Significant portion of
its water from the less available, higher salinity soil-water deeper in
the root zone. For good crop production, equal importance must be given
To maintaining a high foilowater availanility an to leaching accumu
lated salts from the rooting depth before the salt concentration
exceeds the tolerance af the plants

For crops irrigated infrequently, as is normal when using
surface methods and conventional IFFigation management, crop yield is
Beit ‘Correlated with the avorsge root zone Salinity, but for crops
{Frigated on a daily, or near daily basi (localized or rip irriga-
hia rep Yid1on ave necter correlates wit the water-uptake weighted
£oot zone salinity (shoades 1982). The differences are not great but
may become important in the higher range of salinity. Tn tnis paper,
Hiscussions are based on crop response to the average root zone
Saline.

--- PÁGINA 18 ---
“ae

In irrigated agriculture, many salinity problems are associated
with or strongly influenced by a shallow water table (within 2 metres
Gf the surface). Salts accumulate in this water table and frequently
become an important additional source of salt that moves upward inte
the crop root zone. Control Of an existing Ahallou water table is thus
essential to salinity control and to successful long-ters irrigated
agriculture. HiGhor salinity water requires appreciable extra water for
Leaching, which adds greatly to a potential water table (drainage
problem and makes long-term irrigated agriculture nearly impossible co
Achieve Vitnout adequate drainage. If drainage 1s adequate, salinity
Control becomes Simply good management to snsure that the crop is
adequately supplied With water at all times and that enough leaching
water is applied to control salts within the tolerance of the crop.
1.2.2 water Infiltration Rate

An intiltration problem related to water quality occurs when the
normal ‘infiltration rate for the applied water or rainfall is appreci
Bly reduced and water remains on the soil surface too long or intil-
trates too slowly to Supply the Crop With sufficient water to maintain
acceptable yields. Although the infiltration rate of water into soil
varies widely and can bo greatly influenced by the quality of the
irrigation water, soil factors such as structure, degree of compaction,
organic mattor content and chemical maKO-up Can 180 greatly iREluence
“he intake rate.

The two most common water quality factors which influence the
pormal infiliration rate are the salinity of the water (total quantity
OF salts’ in the water) and its Sodium content relative to the calcium
ana ‘magnesiua content. A high salinity water will increase iniltra-
ion. A low salinity water or a water with a high sodium to calcium
atic will decrease infiltration. Sots factors may operate at the same
time. Secondary problems may also dovelop Lf LErigations must ba pro-
Longéa for an extended period of time to achieve adequate infiltration.
Thode include crusting of soedbeds, excossive ead, mutritional dia:
orders and Growning of the trop, rotting of seeds and poor crop stands
in low-lying wot Epots. Ono serious side offect of an infiltration
problem is the potential to develop disease and vector (mosquite)
Problems.

An infiltration provlen related to water quality in most cases
occurs in the surface few centimetres Of soil ana is linked to tho
structural stability of this surfaco soil and its low calcium content
relative to that of sodium. When a soil in irrigated with a high sodium
water, a high Sodium surface Soil develops which weakens soil Struc
Sure.’ The surface soil aggregates thon disperse to much smaller
particles which Clog soil pores. The problem may also be caused by an
extremsly low calcium content of the surface soil. In some cases, water
Tow Tn Salt can cause a similar problem but this is related to the
corrosive nature of the low salt wator and not to the sodium content of
the water or soil. In the case of the low salt water, the water
aiSsolves and loachos most of the soluble minerals, including calcium,
From the surace soil.

1.2.3 Tosieiry

Toxicity problems occur if cortain constituents (ions) in the
Soil or water arc taken up by tho plant ang accumulate to concentra
Elons Tigh onough to Gauso crop damage OF reduced yields. The dogros of
Gamage depends on tha uptake and the crop Sonsitivity. Tne pormsnent.
perennial type crops (tree crops) are tho moro sensitive. Damage often

--- PÁGINA 19 ---
Sse
occurs at relatively low lon concentrations for sensitive crops. It is
usually first evidenced by sarginal leat urn and interveinal chioro-
Sil Tr tha accumulation 13 Great enough. reduced yields result. The
ore tolerant annual crops ary no: sensitive at low concentrations but
Slmost all crops will be damages or kille: if concentrations are
sufficiently high.

The fons of primary concern are chloride, sodium and boron.
Although toxicity prooles may occus even when these ons are in low
concentrations, toxicity ofzen accompanies and complicates a salinity
SF water infiltration problem. Dudge results wnen the potentisily
Toxic fons are absoroed In significant amounts wiih the uator taken up
by tne roots. The absorbed fons ace transported o the leaves whors
Chey accumulate suring transpiration. The ions accumulate to the
Greatest extent in tne areas where the vate: lows is greatest, usually
The Tea tips and leal eGgs. Accurulatian to Eoxic concentrations
takes time and visual damage is often slow to be noticed. The Gegree Of
damage depends upon the Suration of exoosure, concentration by the
oxic ion, crop sensitivity, an: ihe volune Of water transpired by the
Crop. In a hot climate or hot part of the year, accumulation is more
rapid than if the seme crop vers grown in a cooler climate or cooler
Aeason when it might show little oz no damage.

Toxicity can also occur from direct absorption af the toxic ions
through leaves wet by Overhead sprirxlers. Sodium and chloride are the
prizaty ions absorb: through leaves, and oxicity to one or both can
Bo’ problem with certain Sensitive cross such as aizrus. As concentra
“ions increase in the applied water, cavage develops wore rapidly and
becones progressively more seveca.

1.2.4 miscellaneous

Several other proslems relates to irrigation water quality occur
with sufficient frequency for thom to bo spec tlcally noted Theso ino
Elude Sigh nitrogen Concéntaticns in the Vater waich Supplics nitrogen
So the Crop and may asso oxcosmive vage:ative growth, lodging, and
delays ‘Crop maturity; unsigatly Sspesiis on fruit or leaves due to
overhead sprinkler irrigetion with High cicarbonato water, water con-
Caining gypaus, oF Water hich if izon; ard various abnormalities often
a9sociatod with an Unusual pF of the Water. A special proplem faced by
Some farmers practising ifrigation is deterioration of Gguipment due Lo
Seri induced Corrosion or ercristation. hiz problem if mest serious
Gr wells and pumps, bus ir sows areas, a poor quality water may alu
Gamage irrigation equipment and canals. In areas where there is a
Potential risk (roa diseases such ae malaria, schistososlasis and
Tymphatic filariasis, disease vector problens must te considered along
With other water quality felazed prosleme. Voc:or problams (mosquitos)
Scan originate as a sotondary trousle related to 4 low water infiltra-
Tion rate, to the use of wastewater for rrigation, or to poor drain
age. Suspended organic ss well aa inorganic sairents cause problems in
iFrigation systens through clogging of Jates, sprinkler hoads and
drippers. They Can caus Janage co purse Lf ACresns are not used to
Sxclude chem. Wore cowsonly, Sediments tad to {iil canals and ditches
Gna case cantly dredging and mAntenance problers. Sediment also tonds
£5 reduce further tho ater infiltration rate of an already slowly
permaanie soil.

1.3 APPROACH TO CVALUATING WATKR QUALITY

The presiction that a vaser quality-related problem will occur

requires evaluation Of the SoLintisl of Lhe water to Sroete soil condi-

--- PÁGINA 20 ---
S6-

tions that may restrict its use or that may require the use of special
management techniques to maintain acceptable yields. There are a number
Of procedures available for this evaluation but Fogardicss of which one
is usea, ompnasia should focus on relating the potential problem to the
lola situation since solutions to water quality problems usually must
ba implemented at che farm level rather than at the project level. The
evaluation must therefore be done in farms of specific local conditions
5£"ute ana the farm management Capability of the water veer.

This approach is the same as in the 1976 dition of this paper
and similar guidelines are proposed for evaluating the potential of an
{frigation vater to create soil or crop problems. The guidelines are
£ollowed by suggestions on management alternatives to overcome those
potential problems. This approach is often referred to as a provlem-
Solving approach and emphasizes long-tern effects on irrigated agri-
Slture rather than short-term, because of the large investments now
heeced in irrigated agriculture.

The four problem categories previously discussed - salinity,
infiltration, toxicity and miscellaneous - are used for evaluation.
Water Guality problems, however, ars often complex and a Cosbination of
Drobloms may affect Crop production more sevoroly than a single problem
In’ {solation. The more complex the problem, the aore difficult it is to
formulate an economical management programme for solution.

If problems do occur in combination, they are more easily
understood and solved If each factor is considered individually.
Thorofore, the guidelines and discussion which follow treat each
problon and its Solution Soparatoly, so that a nusbor of factors are
Slaluated Tor each of the problem arsas, such ast

+ the type and concentration of salts causing the

provlen;

+ the soll-water-plant interactions that may cause

the Lows in crop yield
* the expected sevority of the problem following
Long-term use of the water:

+ the management options that are available to pre-

vent, correct, or olay the onset Of the problem.
14 WATER QUALITY GUIDELINES

Guidelines for evaluation of water quality or irrigation are
given in Table . They emphasize the long-term influence of water
Guality on crop production, soll conditions and farm management. and
re présentes in the same formst as in the 1976 edition but are updated
Yo include recent research resulta. This format is similar to that of
the 1974 University of California Committe of Consultant's Water
Quality Guidelines which wore prepared in cooperation with Staff of the
Unicea’statos Salinity Laboratory.

The guidelines ars practical and have heen used successfully in
general irrigated agriculture for svaluation of the common constituénts
In surface water, groundwator, drainage water, Sowago offluont ana
“isiewster. They are based on cercain assumptions Which are given
Immediately following the table. Those assumptions must be cloarly
understood but Should not become F1gid prerequisites. A modLfied set of
alternative guidelines can be proparse Lf actual conditions of uso
Gilter greatly from those assimed.

--- PÁGINA 21 ---
Sa-

Ordinarily, no soll cr cropping proslems are experienced or
recognized whon Using wator with values lems than those snown for 'no
restriction on use’. With resiriczions Ln the slight to aoderate range,
gradually increasing care In seloction of crop and management alterna
Tives is requires tf full yisld potential Is 6 be achieved. On the
other hand, if water is used which oguals or oxceods the values sown
for severe restrictions, the water user shoule experience Sil and
cropping problems or reduced yields, but even with cropping management
designed especially to cope With poor quality water, a high level of
management exill is sssantial for acceptable production. If water
Guality values are found Which aporoacs or excasd those given for the
Severe” restriction category, it ie recommenced nat before initiating
The use Of the ater In & large project, a series of pilot farming
studies be conducted to doteraire’ sas scomomics Of the farming and
Cropping techniques that need to be implemented.

Table 1 is a management tool. As with many sun interpretative
tools in agriculture, It 1s developed Lo help users such as water
agencies, project planners, agriculturalis:s, felontists ana trained
lola people to understand batter the affect of water quality on soil
condicions and crop production. WIth this understanding, the user
Should be able to adjust nanagenen: to ucilize poor quality water
better. However, the user i Table | mus: guard against drawing
unwarranted conclusions based only on the Laboratory results and the
Guideline interpretations as thane must bo related t5 fiol¢ conditions
na must be cocked, confirees ans tested by field trials or experi

The guidelines are a first step in pointing out the quality
Limitations ‘Of a water supply, bu this alone’ is fot enough methods to
overcome or adapt to than ate also rested. Thoroforo, In bubsequont
Sections, management alternatives are presencd and several oxamples
are given to illustrate how the guidelines can bo used.

The guidelines do not evaluate the effect of unususl or special
water constituents somotines fourd in wastevater; such as pesticides
and ‘organics. However, suggested lirits of trace olexsnt concentrations
for normal ‘irrigation vater are giver in Section 5.5. As irrigation
water supplics frequently serve as & drirking ater source for live
Stock, salinity and trace element drinking water limitations for
Livestock are presented ir. Scion 5.

It is beyond the scope of this puslication to go Into drinking
water standards, but this aspect saould, revorsnoless, bo considered
Guring the planning of an irrigation scree. This 1s Lnportant, because
irrigation ‘suzplics ars also commarly used, oithor intentionally or
unintentionally, as hunan drinking water. The World Healtn Organization
(a) “or ‘2 "loca health agency Should be consulted for mors specific
information.

Laboratory dstoreinatiors ant calculations needed to use the
guidelines are given in Table 7 and Figure 1, along with the sysbols
Used. Analytical procedures for sno laboratory detorsinations sre given
UR"Svoral’ publications: USA Handboos 00 (Richards 1954), Rhoades and
Clark 1978, FAG Soils Bulletin 10 (Dewic ans Froitas 1970), ans
Standard Methods for Exasifation of Wators and Westowators (APA 1980).
The method most appropriate for tre available equipent, budget and
fuabor of samplos sfould bo used. Analytical accuracy Within +5 percant
1s considered adequate.

--- PÁGINA 22 ---
a.
Tabet COLDELINES FOR INTERFUETATLONS oF ATER QUALITY oR 1eRIGATION'
Fotanttal Tretgucion problem totes ares of Restriction on tee
oon Sita to Moderate severe
PTT ——
pei
w=, we cor 0-0 a0
on
wn caso 0-0 > 000
Tatteraeton (riot insitenation
Sat of rien nea the aot
Etude seing Fy ont S47
a 0-1 aan, - sea eg-ea coz
Tusa B FE Ry] <i
THI H FO} pH]
Sect Ton Tostetty (577icts
sndtem (0
suetace terigacion wy I’ sa
Te wt H EN
Gatorade ©)"
sustace sertgucson wert . iow > 10
prety 5)
aaron (4) wn cor er-n0 so
Teace Klemsote (ses Table 70)
Mice lomeoue Refecte (affice
prey
Nitrogen (0, ~ 0° rt 5 son sw
[ra
Torereed sriting onty) well C13 13-8 sas
Norma sage 6.5 - 84
© Mente trom University of ColLiornis Comittee of Somsuitants 1976.
er metre at 23°C (48/m) or 1a units miiiiahos pur centiseies (nmho/ca). Both are equiva
160." whee corer solved solide, reported tn =i1iiseoms per 1itee (=/1)-
© SAR wasn sndtum adsorption ratio. SAR 1s sanstines report by the symbol Ane. Sea Figure
FR Ee ey To re Ta ag eget
Sal Tui8y" acromten, Sesluste rh potent 41 Int 11eation peohiss by VAR 48 soditied bY 16v.
Rid com Whasien 1577 sud cecte sm Sehcost 1375:
EL To Ell Se DLL AT nt
Lables (Tables 4 ond 5). For chloride olecance of selected frult crops, see Table 14. With
hatin SoeLoklar Leeiastion sus 1ou hdity C< 30 percent), sodivm aud ChIOrLIS hay bo
SER he a SO Sn env STS
© H0,-N means trate sterogee reparted dn carne of clencotal nitrogen (4 and Orpenie-s
Foret = Techies when westmii 1s bein eset):

--- PÁGINA 23 ---
Tet (cont)

I

The water quality guidelines fo Table © ere Sates to cover the vhde casge of conditions
acouatored In irrigated Agsiciliece: Sereeal sale ammptiont devs we voed 0 define
ET rR Tay Aegina fibril
Evldclines 317 aed. fo Su adiusted, ide deviations Frok the assmmreions Bok Feo bn
Vong Sudgemarcs on The setbLLLLy of a ertierat water poly, areca If 1 iso
Bordeerine cate. Wars SaPHICLONL ekperience, Held VFLsie, etearch oi shecroatisos are
To basic assumptions in the guidelines sre

Held Potetial: | rob production sable <6 ul crepe with he se of special
25 Use” Ihaicaies Chat thuce af ba LLnELLcLon 10 Choice 8F Srop. oF spacisl messbieent
Eodicata Tha tm wien Go settee for anes SEROTCsion Sn wae dees sor
Grif: Toe Cltaata. fo sonioartd vo atvo snd cuurion] 1s lov: Aekateit dons vot Bier a
Stnifican cole’ Go acing crop Wncer desand or leaching. fegucrencet. (Ins soceuon
Cinta SF areas where: precipiration 1a Man Ser park or ail of the eat, the puibeii
Featriceions ‘are Coo severe Unies the MEME rainEal) sicastions, TEievated vires Fron
EInEal Ts crradtine in awacing all of Fact of the Lich rervivemat.) Diciange 1s
Sinan oo Boch MED 10 cont oe 4341 Sater (oe pssens WIA 3 tres 6 Che
Methods and Tintug of lerigstions: Noros. surtsce or spear irrigation weiiads are
eed Water 15 plied (HErsILercly, a3 teuded, ud (on crop tilises 3 conetiarasia
Fertion Of the avaliable stored dutivater {20 percecs Or sore) Sefore th next Irrigations
ened 1 erent SE ce spprted ct proche kin the sont same Covching Fraction
T1755" perchn)" The guidelines avo 100 Sricrive For spactalivee Heeigation seibmdes
Suh 0 AocaTiied drip 15ehgation; SKIch FevRLSs Gn coat Asily or Teeauens Lerbeurionss mol
frenetic to Sa nh AT
Mater uptake by Grope: O1ffecent coups Neve Ciffarane vicar uptake patterns, wt all take
EE Ree se eli teeth
5 orcas 1 sscoed <0 ba ker. fron ht opsee Sete of the feceing Gopihs 30 percent
Ero Tha second Quarter, 20 pereiet foun he CHT Quariers an 10 porcent fre the iovest
Geaier! SIG Yetlgation Leschus the ugar cout sine ach saimatne G5 at relatively iow
Slides. Salinity factesses vith Gerth amd 1s Friecest fr cht Lower pars of th root somes
The avdiage SALLRLLy of the soliouatec 56 Chive Lines Chat of The applied Cer and 14
2 Cro baka eter Sh all ime, 1 OM HrTIALISRS Chat ee tne

Sa hanes ts Se Tl Le et Wow To en so oy sufficient Lesching. Tn
Sher TL To Eo TRY FL
Restriction on bee: The “hestcictio on tae som dn Table | fs divided foes cheee
degrees. OF SOVEITY: nova, SAIL G6 moderate, one sivaris Sha, divisions acs sooeshat
ary ice chivas sctuch gheéescly ond tore 15 oo Clebeeut dskig Polak A chock
E710 Ee 25 percent hove or below a uideiine value hms Jets shEuifisasce if soreidared
0 Proper perspective with Sth €ackors: atkasking p1e1d. Field Tesbicn, research triste
Ei ave Jed 0 Chase BivEslons, bak aassgenent Sil) af the eater Laur can
Tarn Faiues Shove ae sys ieal le unise woetal Field soulitions revelling in moet

--- PÁGINA 24 ---
~10-
Table? LABORATORY DETERNINATIONS NEEDED T0 EVALUATE CONN IRRIGATION WATER
quaLTY promLENs
Vater parameter Ser ome et ree Tn
samy
sale Conon
Elecertcal Gonducttvicy =, sim oo asm
(or)
Total Dissolved Solids ws py 0-200 w/t
Cattons ant Antons
Calctun a wr 0-20 wen
Magaesiom wt wn 0-5 wen
Sodium nt wr 0-40 wn
Carbonate Ee wrt 0- wen
Bearbonate wo ment 0-10 wen
Chloride a wn 0-% wn
sulphate 07 wen 0-20 men
ras:
Nitrateon trogen won men 0-10 wn
Ju——— wx el 0-5 wn
Phosphate-Phasphorus ER 0-2 wn
Potassivn © pa 0-2 wn
prr—
Boron » sit 0-2 mn
Acta/sastety on eo so-es
Soétun Adsorption Ratio? san (met 0-13
© 4S/m = deciSiomea/ascze 1a 5.1. uates (squivalent to | sbo/ca = 1 aillimmbo/conci~
etre)
2/1 = wtlligen por Titre = pacts per atllion (spa).
4/1 = milliegutvalent por litre (g/L equivalent weight = me/1); in SI umics, 1 ne/l
1 ati Tano lieve adfuared for electron charge.
© 40, means the Laboratory will smalyse for No, but vill report the Wy in terms of
Chemically squivalest microgea. Similarly, for MH, the laboratory will analyse for
Se ur feport in torus of chemically cuivalent eleasncal nitrogen. The Cotal
Alirogen available to the plast will be the sua of the equivalent slcaental nitrogen.
The sane cepoctiug sechod fa uecd for phosphorus.
© SAR fa caleulated from the Na, Ca aad Mg reported in me/L (see Figure 1).

--- PÁGINA 25 ---
—
To So spt on ato 1540) cx oe on
or colcalated using " tallowing equation ca'te Mg*
200 SAR 8 a 4
Fev
Ve
BER ozs
ES 0.50
SION Jor
va I
OS
fo &
yA
EA
Fo ff 8
Rad
AY.
kA (of
ol Fo fo 8 B
\
Py 4
rs% &
»
Le Wo
B vf
[ 5
oF
o 0
HI Somgea tor dcersiing the it von cf iesigasicn
SER Or Shen Te
OE A a Te, ere
ERM

--- PÁGINA 26 ---


--- PÁGINA 27 ---
ERE
2. SALINITY PROBLEMS
2.1 IvrRopuCTION

Irrigation water contains a mixture of naturally occurring
salts. Soils irrigated with this water will contain a similar mix but
Ssualiy at a higher concentration than in the applicd water. Tne extent
£0 which tno salts accumulate in the soil will depend upon the irriga-
tion water quality, ‘Lrrigation management and tho adequacy of drainage.
Tf salts become excessive, losees in yield will result. To prevent
yield loss, malts in the soil must be controlled at a concentration
Below that which might affect yield.

Most water used for irrigation is of good to excellent quality
and is unlikely to present serious salinity constraints: Salinity
control, however, becomes more Gifficult as water quality becomes
poorer. ‘As water ‘salinity increases, greater cars must be. taken to
Teach salts cut of tne root onc before their accumulation reaches a
concontration which might affect yields. Alternatively, steps must be
taken to plant crops tolerant to the expected Foot zone salinity. The
Erequency of leaching depends on water quality and the crop sensitivity
to salinity.

The intent of this chapter is to illustrate the effect of water
quality on the build-up of S511 salinity and show now the latter can
Foduce the soil-water availsvle to the crop. Tnis is followed by 4
Giscussion of how leaching: crop seloction and other management
techniques are used to make salinity control easier and allow greater
use of more saline water in irrigated agriculture. Emphasis will be on
how ‘to manage intermediate quality wator with slight to moderate
Fostrictions on use, as shown in Table 1. Such water could result in
nore severe problems if it is not properly managed. The sams management
Fochniques will apply to a poorer Quality water. but as quality worsens
the options for management become fewer
2.2. BUILD-UP OF SOIL SALINITY

Salts are added to the soll with each irrigation. These salts
il1 reduce crop yield if they accumulate in the rooting dopth to
Gamaging concentrations. The Crop removes much of th appliod water
Econ the soil to meet its ovapotranspiration demand (ET) but leaves
moss of the salt behind fo concentrate in the Shrinking volume of Soil.
Water. AL each irrigation, moro salt 1s addod with tho appliod water, A
portion of the added salt must be leached from the root zone befors the
Concontration affects Crop yield. Leaching ie done by applying suffi.
Clone water so that a portion percolates through and below the entire
Foot zone carrying with it a portion Of the accumulated salts. The
fraction of applicd ater that passes through tho entire rooting depth
ana porcolates below is called the leaching fraction (LF).

teaching . depth of water leached below the root zone (,)

Fraction (17) Gopth of water applied at the surface

After many successive irrigations, the salt accumulation in the
a011 will approach some equilibrium concentration based on the salinity
5 the applies water and tho loaching fraction. A high leaching
Eraction (LF = 0.5) results in less salt accumulation than a lower
leaching fraction (LF = 0.1). IL the water salinity (ECa) and the
leaching fraction (LF) are Known or can be cstimated, both the salinity
of the drainage water that parcolates below the rooting depth and tha

--- PÁGINA 28 ---
“ee
average root zone salinity can be estimated. The salinity of the
Grainage water can be estimated from the equation:
ec
LE [En
Ha "TF
Where: BCy, + Salinity of the drainage water percolating below the
Foot zone (equal £o salinity of soil-vater, EC)

ke, = salinity of the applied irrigation water

Le = leaching fraction

In Example 1, the leaching fraction and water quality are used
to predict drainage water quality. The plant, however, 1s only exposed
to this drainage water salinity at the lowest part of the fot sone.
The salinity in Enis lower portion of the root Zone tends to be higher
than in the upper portion dus to its much lower leaching fraction. The
Crop responds, however, to the average root one soil Salinity and not
to the extremes of either the upper or lover zones.

EXAMPLE 1 - CALCULATION OF CONCENTRATION OF DEEP PERCOLATION FROM TH.
BoTrON oF THE R00T 20M

A crop is Lreigated wich water of an electrical conductivity (BOW) of
1 57m. The'crop is irrigated to achieve  lesching raccion of 0.15
Cansumes char 85 percent of the applied water is used by the Srop or
evaporates fron the soil surtece).
Given: ©, «1am

w= ous
Eeplanation:
The concentration of the sotl-vater percolating below the root sone
(ECow) 1s equivalent fo the concentration of the drainage water
(26d) accumulating below the root zone. The sslinicy of the deep
Percolation. from the bottom of the toot fone (érainase Vater) can be
Sitiaates by using equation (3):

=,
wy, = omy, et ™
Cdr

By tig 7 dsm
The salinity of the sotlvater that is percolating from the botton of
the Foot zone (BCH) WiLL be approximately 6.7 dim.

Equation (3) can also be used to predict average soil-water
salinity (RCau) In the rooting depth if certain assumptions are mane
Fegarding water use within the root zons. The Guidelines of Table 1
acSume thal 0, 30, 20 und 10 percent of the water used by the crop
Gomes, respectively, from the upper to lower quarter of the rooting

--- PÁGINA 29 ---
Case
depth. This water use pattern closely fits conditions found under
normal irrigation practices. An illustration is given in Example 2
Shere tne above water use Battern ia used to ostimate average soil.
water salinity (ecw).

Example 2 shows that ith a 15 percent leaching fraction and a
40-30-20-10 water uae pattern the average soil-vator salinity (ECsw) is
proximately 3.2 timés more concentrated than the applied irrigation
water. At a ‘leaching fraction of 20 percont, tho avorage ECew i6 2.7
Vines the salinity of the applied irrigation water (C4). The guide
Lines of Table 1 wore developed assuaing a 15-20 percent leaching
fraction range which results in an average soil water salinity (ECsw)
approximately 3 times that of tho applied water. The Soil-water
Salinity (ECsw) is the average root zone Salinity to which tne plant is
Sxposed. It 1s Gifficult to measure. Salinity measurement 1s normally
Gone on a saturation extract of the soil and roterrd to as the soil
Salinity (Ce). This soil salinity, (ECe), is approximately equal to
Sne-half of the soil-vater salinity (ECew). As a gonoral rule of thumb,
Sta 15-20 percent leaching fraction, salinity of the applied water
(BC) can be used to prodict or ostinato soil-water salinity (ECew) or
soil salinity (ECe) using the following equations:

Ec, = 3c, “w
Bc, = LEC, [a
ee, = 26, ©

If irrigation practices result in greater or less loaching than
the 15-20 porcon: Lf assumed in the guidelines of Table 1, & more
Correct concentration factor can be Calculated using a new ost imaced
SVerage leaching fraction and the procedurs illustrated in Example 2.
Table 3 lists concentration factors for a wide Fangs of leaching
Eractions (LF = 0.05 to 0.80). The predicted average soil salinity
(£Co) is estimated by multiplying the irrigation water salinity (ECw)
by the appropriate concentration factor LF the sstimated leaching
Fraction (see equation (3) in Table 3): Those predicted average soil
salinities rofloct changes Guo to long-term water use and not short-
Cora’ changes that mey Occur within 4 ssacon or between irrigations.
Figure 2 illustrates typical soil salinity profiles that can bs
identified and are typical of salinity distribution in the crop root
zone after several years of Irrigation “ith one water source and
loser similar Josching fractions.

2.3 SALINITY EFFECTS ON CROPS

The primary objective of irrigation is to provide a crop with
adequate and timely amounts of water, thus avoiding yield loss caused
by oxtondod periods of water stress during atagos of crop growth that
ace B0nsitive to water HOtages. Mowavr, Suring repeated iFrigations,
fhe salts in the irrigation water can accumulate in tho Soil, reducing
water available to th crop and nastoning the onset of a water shorte
ge.” Understanding how tnin occurs Will help suggest ways to counter
Fhe effect and reduce the probability of a loss in yield.

The plant extracts water from the soil by exerting an absorptive
force greater than that which holds tho wator to the soll. If the plant
cannot make sufficient internal adjustment and exert cnough force, it
27ho Wble 10 extract sufficient water and will suffer water stress.
his happens when the Sail becomes foo dry. Salt in the. soll-water
incressas the force the plant must exert fo extract vater and this
403i ional force is rotorred Lo an the osmotic eifect oF osmotic

--- PÁGINA 30 ---
J ——

The average coo sone sults can be calculaced sion the svarags of Five pints fn

Eh Tomei Capes To feb oving sesceboe on be we bo ootiae the svat Foot

on A ni

Je—
\ // I Aptted water saitatey (56) + 1
\V// pris, ve
WY
/ ) a crop water done GD) = 1000
WL na
WA 3. Tre crop water use patter is 40-30-
i [ER oh apibod waite
CoE emt orn rad
Gu, 430 wee Soar of he vo ver
wer 55 rie ho ht some arr,
30 aren: Toone no ad
15 pire ceo The eet reer
BCL, Crop water wee S11 across
oe Cortutacton of nd" Eevee
too EE we oe et duet
i I. ny ore ros soe:
EC, 4 wired deschiog fraction G1) =
[I Oe nine crim o£ 8.13
{ ibn te 5 per SF ve ovens
- Sitio A lt
ES rr ag
EN Eon ena 3 pee: separ vices
oer ve Ty BT en
Sind ad a TN
ww in
Cou,

—

1. Five potate tn che oor some are uses to Cereraine che average ost sone
eat pene El tes ees tiny we ye Es ete
eriors 2 Socom of she up Sarees of the ron oe, (Hoey (3) habess
GER hecona marke dsp RGR (1) kvm of Ch Fire waters (Bons)
ry a a A
Eo Oem hich Se eiesben vo Sr wot 5 ee deste Sacer CBE

I. Ath a 7 of 0.15, che applied vacer CAR) nde 55 ane Boch the cep BT and
a RT ets

woe Eo — = 1176 mm of water [3

3. Since evsncinlly AIL the applied water excers and deschen cheough che soil
ais eso a shears] alee We stoic SF he So
Hey Ee AR
TE iron Tend seeming Tr

x,
PP ER o
aay ey Te

--- PÁGINA 31 ---
“n-

4. The saint of the sollte draiing fron the bucton af ash sot soos
pion lira Rgliog ol Rp
Sadi (ta, SEITE She STE, yt

x
— 2
Water applied Bo “TF
Tx che est of the ene quseas
ur, = 1l6ms00io00) _ acl
= Beto) op 10 en
ak te Bion of the second quarters
a x
1, « 1800) 101000) _ 4 PS,
2 bi a TE
ac te Boon of he ehd quarers
x
Lr = A000) 0010001200000) 3 PU
s iit wy”
at te boom of the ro sone Court utr)
1176-.40(1000)~.30(1000)~, 20(1000)~. 10(1000) oy
Li, = A000) 301000) ANDO) 15 ge 2 7 are
5. The average sstl-ate sainty of the soo sous do found by aking the average
Ta I
be, my eu, vm,
ro = Tomy on * Tey Toy + om,
wT
PC RR BN

6. Th calcolacion shoun thet the suki-vate draining below he root. son wild a

I celeron hh der dr

--- PÁGINA 32 ---
Shee
PT TY ——
TT hon Fon am curion wave Secor
on i HE LEACHING Paci 1)
EE
Hiern poh Tete
io partons ot 1 5
pe fi he
ot B05 or
oi Ba &
The ovation for predicting the sail salinity sepecred steer
oT I aL,
we, (esi) 1, asm +x ®
TE SE  reteber Us ho in Sete 5
o
Le
H
: em
£5
H i
N H
I
Pod B ¥ i
ded Ah oh
ce (asim)
heer ERA

--- PÁGINA 33 ---
Ce

potential. For example, if two otherwise identical soils are at the
Same water content but ono is salt-fres and th other is salty, the
plant can extract and use more water from tho salt-Iree soil than from
the salty ‘Soil. Tho reasons are not oasily explained. Salts have an
EEinity for water. Tf the water contains salt, More enersy per unit of
uater must be sxpended by the plant to absorb relatively sali-free
water from a relatively salty soll-vater solution.

For all practical purposes, the added enorgy required to absorb
water from the salty soll (osmotic potential) 1s additive co the energy
required to absorb water from a salt-reo soil (sofl-water potont isl).
The cumulative SEfect is illustrated in Figure 3 and results in an
important reduction in water available to the crop as salinity in
creases. Salinity oifects are closely analogous to those of drought as
both result in water stress and reduced growth. Stunting, leaf damage
and necrosis or obvious injury to the plant are only noticeable after
Prolonged exposure to relatively high salinity.

The previous discussion showed how the concentration of salts in
the soil varied with leaching fraction and depth in tho root zone and
resulted in an increase in concentration as the leaching fraction
Gocroasos oF with increasing dopth in the Foot some. As the Soil dries,
Ehe plant is also exposed Lo a continually changing water availability
in ach portion of the rooting depth since the soil-wator content
(SolT-vater potential) and scil-uater salinity (osmotic potential) aro
both changing as the plant uses water between iFFigationa. Tho plant
absorbs Wator but most Of tho salt is excluded and left behind in the
Foor zone in a shrinking volume Of soll-water. Figure 4 shows that
Eollowing an irrigation, the soil salinity Ln not constant with depth.
Following cach irrigation, the soil-water content at sach depeh in the
Foot z0n6 is near the maximum, and tho concentration of dissolved salts
is near the minimum. Bach changes, however, as water is used by the
crop between irrigations.

The plant exerts its absorptive force throughout the rooting
dopth and takes water from wherever most readily available (the least
resistance to absorption). Usually this is the upper root zone, the
area most frequently replonisnod by irrigation and rainfall. Since moro
Gator passes through thls upper root zone, Lt 1s more thoroughly
Toachod and the osmotic or salinity effects are much less than at
greater depths. Betueen irrigations, the Upper root zone dries more
Fapidly than the lower because of the proliferation of foots in this
20m which extract the readily available soil moisture. The plant must
Shon meet more of its water dmand from increasingly greater depths as
the’ uppor soil-water Ls doploted. Both tho soil moisture at dopth and
¢he S011 moisture remaining in the upper portions have & higher Soil-
water salinity and thus a greater ommotic potential. As the plant
depletes the Soil-water, a water extraction pattern develops: Tho
oxtraction pattern of 40, 90, 20 and 10 porcont for tho upper to lower
Quarters of the root tons 1s ‘assumed in the guidelines In Table 1. This
Slotoly fits water extraction patterns undor normal irrigation prac-
Tices and 1s assumed throughout this paper-

The pattorn for water uptako is closoly related to tho frequency
of irrigation. With infrequent irrigations, as assumed for tne guide:
Vines in Table 1, tho typical oxtraction pattern is 40-30-2010, but
for more frequent irrigations the water uptake pattern is skowed
towards groater uptako from the upper root zone and loss from the lower
ind the ‘erop rooting dopth tends Lo be at snalloeer Geptha. A typical
SXtraction pattern Right be 60-30-7-3. Whatover tne frequency, irriga-
Tlons must be timed t5 supply adoguati water and provent crop moLsturs
Stross between irrigations, cspecially if soil salinity ls also
affecting ator availability.

--- PÁGINA 34 ---
AN
; w M0
= Rn E

--- PÁGINA 35 ---
JT

When the upper rooting depth is well supplied with water,
salinity ‘in the lower root sone becores less ieportant. However, if
periods between irrigations are extended anc tie crop must extract a
Significant portion of its water irom tho lower depths: the deeper root
zone. salinity becomes irportanc pacticularly if, in he latter stages
Of a *dry-down' (soll moisture depletion) period between irrigations: a
high crop water demand should occur, Such 63 on & hot, windy day. in
Enis case,” absorption ard water movement toward the roots may noi be
fast enough to Supply the crop Ard a severe water stress results.
Reduced yielos or crop damage can be expected for most crops wen thers
i8 a shortage of water for a significart period of :ime.

The preceding discussion assunes that salinity reduces water
avatlapility’ in a Similac manner fcr all types of plants, out not all
Crops are equally affeczod at the sane soi) salinity. Some are more
able than others to extract or absors water fram a sally soil and are,
therefore, more tolerant of salinizy. The reasors for differences in
tolerance are not well understood, bus tolerance cata show shat there
is an'8 to lo-fola range in sale talorance of agricultural crops. in
areas whore irrigation management (leaching) cannot control salinity
within the tolerance of a broforred crcp, a yield loss will result
Unless an alternate crop more tolerant <6 the expected salinity is
planted: a” detailed éiscussior of crop tolerance to salinity is
Presented in Section 2.4.3.

2.4 MANAGEMENT OF SALINITY PROBLEVS

The objective of salinity corsrol a to maintain an acceptable
crop yield. Several maragement options are available for salinity
control and those will be discussed here as separate options, but in
practice a combination nay be hsed to Solve tne problem.

The preceding section discussec the importance of (1) leaching
salts out of tho root zone before they bulld up to levels that might
affect yields, and (2) wairtairing adequate soil-vacer availability at
all tines. Adequate drairage is equally inportant anc long-term
Salinity control 1s not otherwise possible. If drainage 1s adequate
fhe epth of water required for Liaching depends on the Salt Sensis
Eivity of the Crop and the salinity of the applied water. When salinity
is high, the depth Of leaching water needed tay be too grea, making it
necessary to change to a more salt tolerans crop. provided market
economics will allow this.’ In dealirg with a rajer Salinity problem
Felated to water quality, a cropping change ie corsicersc a drastic
Step and will only be taken when less sevare options have failed to
maintain economic production. Leaching, on the other hand, is a basic
Stop in production even for water of the beat quality and must be
practised when necassary to avoi¢ salt accurulation that could ulti
mately affect production. Leaching car only so. done, however, Lf the
Grainage below the crop root tone ie suficient to brevant a rise in
the water table to that it is not a source of salt by itself.

Drainage, leaching and changes to more salt tolerant crops are
used to avoid the impact of long-tera salinity build-up but other
Cultural practices may also be nooded zo deal with possible short-term
or temporary increases in salinity which pay be equally detrimental to
Crop yield. Many cultural practices such as more frequent irrigation,
Tand Grading, timing Of fert:liration ard n0thods Of 8008ing make
salinity management easier.

If thers is a hign level of salinity rot resulting fro water
quality, a foil drainage and reclamation progreeme may be needed and
Short-term Cropping charges ray also need to be mace. After soil

--- PÁGINA 36 ---
Cae
£ca in asim
£0 2% wn eo mw
0
2
0 pro ne3
of Opin (em) Eco (as/m)
020 5
§ 0 203s we
< 7 1s
£ «© 75-90 23
in 30 ond) 5.4
a
sopb—
woof
not
== fies Selindey profile vith o high water table
hy E= (Mohamed and Amer 1972)
mri
ves s se
of Tr
oun Lom
00 ™
5 Lo
-
200
€
£20
z
Sure sl-woter
oof | potential +46 vars
s00
Setacion beswesn_caniilary
60 Hoe etonity and pth oF
arte tate Gun Ror 1979

--- PÁGINA 37 ---
Sa

reclamation, the permanent cropping pattern will be determined by
water quality. Tn'a fow instances, an alternative water supply may
be available for poriodic use or can be blended with a poorer water
Supply to Gininish a Guality-related hazard: Those aiternatives;
including drainage,” leaching, cropping changes and cultural
practices, will be discussed in more detail in the following
Sections.

2.4.1 Drainage

Salinity probleas encountered in irrigated agriculture are
very frequently associated with an uncontrolled water table within
one to two metres of the ground surface (figure 5). In most soils
with a shallow water table, water rises into the active root sone
by capillarity and, Lf the vator table contains salts, it becomes a
Continual source of salts to the root zone ae water is used by the
Crop or evaporates at the soil surface. Salinisation from this
Source can be rapid in irrigated areas in hot climates where
portions of the land remain fallow for extondod periods. The rate
6 soll salinity accusilation from an uncontrolled ansilow water
fable Will dopend upon irrigation management, salt concentration
and Geptn of the groundwater, soil type, and climatic conditions.
Figure 6 shows that capillary rise trom a shallow water table can
represent a sizeable salt Lnpue into the root zone.

In arid and semi-aric climates, a salinity probles caused or
complicated by poor drainage cannot be ssequstely controlled until
tho wator table is stabilized and maintained at a mate depth -
usually at least tuo metres. This requires open or tile grains or
drainage wells to romovo a part of the salty subsuriace water and
transport it to an acceptable salt-sink for Saf disposal. When
drainage is adequate, salinity related directly to water quality
and ‘irrigation management becomes a problem only If the salts
applied with the irrigation water are allowed to accumulate to
Concentration which reduces yield. Effective salinity controls
therefore, must include adequate drainage to cantral and
stabilize the water table and leaching as needed to reduced tho
accumulated salis. A nec Gownvard flux Of surface applicd water to
achiove the Toquired leaching will then control the salinity. The
Guidelines in fable 1 and the remainder of the discussion in this
Paper assune that all salts accumulating in the crop root zono como
Trom the applicd water. This means drainage is adequate and
salinity management is a significant part of irrigation manage
2.4.2 salinity control by Leaching

When the build-up of soluble salts in the soil becomes or is
oxpoctod to bacomo Oxcossive, the salts can be leached by applying
mOFe water than that needed by the crop during the Growing season.
This oxtra vater moves at least a portion of the salts bolow the
root zone by deop percolation (1caching). Leaching is the key
factor in controlling Soluble salts brought in by the irrigation
water. Over tine, salt removal by leaching must equal Or exceed the
Salt additions from the applied water or salts will build up and
Gvontually reach damaging concentrations. The questions that arise
are hou much water should be used for leaching and whon should
Teachings bo applies?

--- PÁGINA 38 ---
Cao
fhe leaching requirement’
To estimate the leaching requirement, both the irrigation water
salinity (Ec) and the crop tolerance to soil salinity (£Ce)
must" be' known. The water salinity can be obtained trom labore
Tory analysis while the ECe should be estimated from appropriate
Crop olerance data given in the tables in Section 3.4.5 of this
baper. These tables give an acceptable ECe value for ‘each crop
Sppropriate to the tolerable degres of yield loss (usually 10
percent or less).
The necessary leaching requirement (LR) can be estimated from
Figure 7 for general crop. rotations. For more exact estinates
for" particular crop, the leacring requirement equation (5)
(Rhoade? 19741 and Rhoades and Wereill 1976) should be used:
ec,
HOT seg CE or
where: LR = the mlnimun leaching requirement needed to
control salts within the: tolerance (ECe) of
The crop with ordinary surface methods of
irrigation
EC, = salinity of the applied irrigation water in
RE i we =
EC, = average soil salinity tolerated by the cro
. 5 ndtnirea on a soi) aturacion excracer
Gncain the Eco value for the given crop and
the appropriate acceptable yield fram fable
Er Smmended nat the Ee vate that
Cin be xpacted to result in at lsst a 90
percent or greater yiela be used in the
Calculation. (Figure 7 was developed using
ECe alues for the 100 percent yield potent
£00 Veer in er moderate to high
Saliniey range (31.5 as/m). it might be
better to use tne £ce value for maximus yield
potential ‘(100 percent) since salinicy’ con
Fron la Critica” Shen ing soon yieide.
The total annual depth of water tht reads to be applied to mest
BOLN tho Crop demand and leaching requirement can be estimated
Erom equation (7).
er
woe Ee @
where: AW = depth of applied water (um/year)
ET 2 Coll Gnnal crop waver demand (me/year)
Li © leaching requirement expressed as a fraction
(Geaching traction)

In many texts, the Terns ‘leaching fraction (LF)' and ‘leaching
requirenent (LR)" are ued nterchangeably. They Both refer to that
portion of the Sxrigation which should pase theouon the root sone fo
Control malin at a Specific level. While Lf indicates that the value
be’ expressed as a fraction, LR can be expressed either as a fraction
OF percentage of irrigation water:

--- PÁGINA 39 ---
Case
rr,
peg
3 7
Tolerant crops ¢ 8) P
' ” s
EARN 7
———ie oF p
EN 5
Moserately 2 7 <7 5
wom com |
ig oo
———-3 Rr
- Rr
ro frm)
rity j= =
C4]
a HE
Soraivy eroen
EE Er ST
Sony of cops weer (EC) i 857m
Mi 7 Matace of appbied water sainiey (65) ups soot sone
To ast ae) Berle Hach Francia (08)
1. Tiaing of tonchinge
It taken tine to accumulate salts in the root sone to a concen
Craton’ Sat Falmer iota. Hows Trslgecion tater de" oF "sun
Gon quality That. vithout leaching: two or mors years of
Brrioation’ viLi"be coquiren berore. sahinicy ‘scoumiiachs. sorts
SCiohtly "ta attect yio1a: Further. tho lator in the srowisa
season the" Salts ‘each dmmaging concentrations. the los iii bo
IRIE otto: This supgoess that If salts are low onsush at the
STars Of ‘he irrigation seasons ofticloncy of eter ube. dering
Eh roving. seasen aan be 100 pircent (ng. Losshing). without. Toes
SE fea So Ea RL nity: for The mext season; Faineils dormant
Sakon and pre-giant. iZrigations. singly or in’ combina? Lon, cen
Buea to rupenian dcp. soll moisture and loath sole” fren
Shoup of herniation salts ‘ta lion GERLCIoRE weber uss. ogain
SUEin che ext growing seasons Tt 1% often Gitfieuls So seeply
Both besont al Leon acer and leaching varar during herbal
Simmor Season: Tae key. factor to. remember io that LSsching. it
EE hnotad until soaulering salieley ls epeceed co! Srbood
Coop oterance ana aduee yet.
The tining of leschings dose not appear to be critical provides
Stop’ toletance Ta not” sxcanded for bxtondod or orLtieel periods
SET ("Inia Chitainly dose. nor mean that Ioeching IS rete
Siveiy ntmporcant. The’ 1osching roquiromtnt Buse. bo satistisd

--- PÁGINA 40 ---
Cae
each irrigation, each alternate irrigation or less frequently,
SUE as seasonally of at even Longer ‘intervals: ee necedseey Lo
Koop malinicy below the ‘Threshold above wniéh yields may. be
Unaterptaniy reduced: In many instances. the doeal inertis
Slancien of water application satisty tne losching poquirenstt
Sna"Saai tonal Teaching ia. wasteful of water (366 Bramble 3):
hora dow Teaching. fractions. (: 0-10) are veededs as Sieh goed
Galley Vater’ "nec cioncios in. Lrrigation ator. spelitation
001 Timoat slvays apply sufciciont sutra water so’ sccomsiisn
Teaching, in otner (nstsncens particularly with higher satinits
water, hecting “the euch no” Fequirenent in "aiteicus an
Fadui es" Jarde’ amounts. of vaker. Fossinly adding to a Srainage
Drdblon: It Gan be weeumed that in appreciable portion of ‘the
£550) "Beep percolation: Josten. From noras Ireiosiion practises
I neta io Controlling salinity:
J —————
A ante crop is srsigaced by furros Lrctgation. Toe crop fo plasced fn a wniforn
dora sot wut thoes waver: ich ho an 50s = Te3 OTe: 13 whol for Sreiuetions Tre
Chop evapoctanapiracion. (5) 1s $00 mm sessea. The Lreigation spp ication efficiency
E75. Terefore the Gotal smo of water Ch mnt we sPpRied vo west ror BY
Stain ie 500 am0.55 ~T130 "eveasen. ow mach abbteionst ter mer ve Spobich
for Tenching?
Given: PRT
ETE ER chrom mubte 4 for mates at a 90 percent vials
sates
56, = 1.7 dja (trom Table 4 or matze at a 100 percent yield
setestia
Eeplamation: The Leaching copuiremnt can bo calculaced saing equation 3) and
pierre topped i orbs Sri
Sotentiah Crom Tabi 007
woe oe M 000 Ger a 30 percene
Hep'THE, SAH TIT "yield pencil)
Be grb + 0.16 Gor a 100 percent yield porenetan)
The sccust amount of water to be applied to supply bath crop TT and
Teta hogar walt Seatholy 20d VL ion, 35
u wo
J. »
Stace a 1730 m tepch of applied water 1s sesded to ensure tha the me crop 1s
SEGuatety Sreigeced to eee iva 500 im HT sensed aed lose. Shir” 1330 wm 10 dn
LES ICEL Tea 0 mm ruta to ser bach oop Bi dem and
Che Teaching resuirencnt, 1h Toevcion arives sheeter he ove a excors oF NT are
EL etcotaian Tosser sad ether the losses wy be” setisfyin he Beachine
Ceuiiriaet. Vater Tavses Sun to dasp perclation ses often Brest Ls sscems of the
i Fraction of 6115 sama In thas tolerance ebien. Grable 5) a beioh
opieal of efficient Srtigaced stitute. Ths in this evetmIes toe Tenses ste bun
EPPA] Shriaiscions on sodseionss aching 10 control SLTRLS 1s stceeoay se
BE ec er pg NTA RT et is ie fs Aa
SETI Seriaatton tntictency Cosson) during veces sppicacions

--- PÁGINA 41 ---
Car -
Rainfall must be considered in estimating the leaching require
=ent. Rainfall that onters the soil is effective in meeting botn
Crop ET and the leaching requirement. Rainfall that infiltrates
into the soil (effective rainfall) replaces ET losses. If in
excess of ET, it becomes drainage water and will satisty part or
21170¢ "the leaching needed to control salts. The advantage of
Fainfall in accomplishing all or part of the leaching is thar it
uniformly applies an almost salt-fres water (ECw <0.05 45/m).
Loaching is further enhanced if the rate of rainfall (s belo
the Infiltration rate of the soil. If the total amount of rain.
£al1 infiltrated la suficiont, it will reduce the average
Salinity used for the applied water (£Cw) in calculating the
leaching requirement (LR) and thus reduce proportionately the
required leaching. Figure 8 shows how rainfall quickly reduces
ne salinity in the crop root zone.
In low rainfall years or low rainfall areas, precipitation may
fot be adequate Lo refill the soil to its water holding capa
ity,” in which case no leaching occurs to reduce accumulated
3alinity other than to move the salts from the upper part of the
Foot zone deoper into the soil. Tha upper portions af the root
ing dopth will then reflect the very low salinity levels of the
rainfall hich can enhance Germination.
In areas where rainfall occurs in the cooler months or winter
Season, it may bo possible to ennance winter leaching sven in a
Gry year. It is recommended that a heavy autumn or early winter
irrigation be given fo refill the soil profile with water before
the Faine. Winter rains will then complate the soil-wator ro-
plenishacnt ‘and accomplish all or part of the required leaching
ith low-salt water. If the rewscting or leaching is still not
Complete by crop planting Cime, the Gasp percolation losses from
Sxtonded early soason Lrrigations may accomplish the soil rower
ting and salt loaching. Figure 9 Shows how winter rains have
leached salts from citrus plantings in Cyprus.
The leaching requirement can be calculated (Bguation 3) but we
Can only make estimates of the amount Of leaching that le acty-
ally taking place. Soil and crop monitoring are useful tools to
Gtormine tho noed for leaching. Considerable variation occurs
From one cropping acason Lo the next; therefore, monitoring
Should stress long-ters trons and changes in soil salinity.
Several studies, field trials and observations suggest proce-
Guros that might increase the oificiency of leaching and reduce
She amount of water needed. Those will fot be covered in detail
here but will be mentioned as they apply to many irrigation
Situations:
. loach uring the cool scason instead of the warm to
increase the efficiency and ease of leaching since the ET
108658 aro lower:
. use more salt tolerant crops which require a lower LR and
“hus a lower total water demand:
© use tillage to slow overland water flow und reduce the
Rumbar of surface cracks which bypass flow throuah 1arge
pores and ecresse efficiency in leaching;
. use sprinkler irrigation at an application rate below the
051 Infiltration rato which favours unsaturates flow
“hich {a appreciably more officiont than saturated (low

--- PÁGINA 42 ---
Sa
7
of | 17
Jz
Vz
ul wd
i ws
« oi &
i 1
PN Nene
eal wh AER
| i ies
wf of 3% ase
\ =
IN
WN J
el x Wy PUN,
at
as Bs
pak  A er ag
mE I ET
Th Ts ERE TN
Bonaire EEESACECT SUM Tonter HT
sending

--- PÁGINA 43 ---
a-
use an irrigation before the start of the rainy season if
total rainfall is normally expected to be insufficient to
do a complete leaching. Rainfall is often the moat offi-
cient leaching method because it provides high quality
“ater at relatively low rates of application.
iii. monitoring

A Good irrigation management plan strives to apply sufficient

Vater to mest the Crop water demand plus the leaching require-

ont without wastage. Both tha crop wator demand and leaching

Foquirement can bo estimated and the depth of applied water

needed can be calculated. In many instances, however, estimates

Of deptn of applied water (flow rate, duration and area covered)

are inaccurate or not availasle, making estimates of effective

Ross of leaching for salinity control unreliable. Existing

Conditions and reliable estimates of past management can be

dotormined with a reasonable degree of cortainty by means of

Soil Samples, analysed for salinity. From che soil samples an

apparent lehching fraction as well as an average root zone

salinity resulting from past irrigation practices can be

Geverninea.

The following procedure is suggested:

a. Estimate the probable depth of rooting of the last crop
grown - from observation (pit, hole, soil samples, otc.)
Or from past experience. Depth estimate should include 75
To 83 percent of the observed root zone.

5. Take representative soil samples from cach quarter depth of
Foot zone and analyse sach Guarter depth Separately for ECe
BY the soil pasts extraction metnod of the US Salinity
Laboratory (USDA 1954).

©. Plot by a graph sinilar to that of Figure 2 for the aoil
depth and salinity representative of cach quarter dopth of
Foot 2one and combars. this curve with tho curves dopicting
the various typical leaching fractions (LF = 0.1, 0.15,
0.2,0.3, 0.4) in the grapn. Then, ostimate a leaching
Fraction ‘for the site sampled based on the shape of the
salinity profile.

4. From the Ce of the four soil samples (one from cach
quarter depth of the root zone) calculate the average Foot
Zomo salifity and compare with tho crop tolerance ECs
Values in Table 4 for the crops to bo planted.

©. From the apparent leaching fraction and the average £Co of
the oot zone, make any ecossary management decisions to
G3uce ireigations to increase or decrease the leacming
fraction in order to stay Close to the tolerance of the
preferred crop. Alternatively, change the crop to agree
nore closely with the oxisting salinity conditions.

2.4.3 Crop Tolerance to salinity

All plants do not respond to salinity in a similar manner; some
crops can produce accoptable yiclds at much greater soil salinity than
thers. This is because some aro better able to make the needed Osmotic
2ajuntments enabling thom to CXEract more water from a saline soil The

--- PÁGINA 44 ---
S0-
ability of the Crop to adjust to salinity is extremely useful. In areas
whore a build-up of soil salinity cannot be controlled at an acceptable
Concentration for the crop being grown. an alternative crop can be
Selected that is both more tolerant of the expected soil salinity and
Can’ produce economical yields,

There is an 8 to 10-£0ld range in salt tolerance of agricultural
crops. This wide range in tolerance allows for a much greater use of
moderately saline water much of which was previously thought to be
unusable. It also greatly expands the acceptable range of water
Salinity (C4) considered suitable for irrigation.

The relative salt tolerance of most agricultural crops is known
well enough to give general salt tolerance guidelines. Tolerances for
many common field, vegetable, forage and tree crops are given in Table
3. nis table has boon updated from the 1976 edition and gives the
Latest tolerance values for crops grown under semi-arid irrigated
agriculture. Where insufficient data exist to give numerical values for
tolerance, a relative rating has beon assigned to the crop, based on
field oxporionce, limited data or observations. For comparative
purposes, relative tolerance ratings are listed in fable 5 for a large
Rumber of craps, including many Of those given in Table 4. General
Groupings for tolerance are Shown in the schematic disgras in Figure
10." ne" relative tolerance ratings, even if based on a limited amount
of data, ‘are useful for comparisons among cropa.

The relative crop tolerance ratings were considered in setting
the degrees of ‘restriction on use’ in the Guidelines of Table 1. for
example, the tolarance data of Table 4 indicate that a full yield
potential should be obtainable for nearly all crops when using a water
Which has a Salinity less than 0.7 ds/m. The guidelines of Table 1
Indicate that water of this salinity would have no restriction on use.
For tho salinity listed in the slight to moderate range, a full yield
potential is still possiblo but Care must bo taken to achieve the
Fequired leaching fraction in order to maintain soil salinity within
the tolerance of the crop. For higher salinity water and sensitive
crops, increasing the leaching to satisfy a leaching requirement
groastor ‘than 0.25-0.30 may not be practical bocause of tho oxcossive
Gmounc of water required. In such a case, consideration must bo given
£0 changing to a more tolerant crop that will require less leaching to
control salts within crop tolerance. As the water salinity (ECw)
increases within the Slight to moderate range, production of the more
sensitive Crops may be restricted due to an inability to achiove tho
high leaching fraction needed, especially when grown on tne heavier,
Boro clayoy Soil types. IE the salinity of the applied water excesds
3%" as/m, as Shown in Table 1 for a Aevere restriction on use, the
water may still bo usable but its uso may need to be restricted to more
permeanit Soils and more salt folerant crops where the high leaching
Fractions are more sasily achieved.

The salt tolerance data of Table 4 are used in the calculation
of the leaching requirement. Figuro 7 can also be used to sstinate the
Teaching requirement if crop tolsrance grouping and water salinity sre
known, as 4i3cusscd in the previous section. If the exact cropping
patterns or rotations are ot knoun for a now area, the leaching
Foquirement must be based on the loast toiorant of the crops adapted to
Eh ara. In those inétances whore soil salinity cannot he maintained
within accoptable limits of proforred sensitive crops, changing to more
Tolorant crops ulll Fass tho arca's production potential. In case of
Goubt a5 fo the offect of the water salinity on crop production, a
Pilot study should bo undertaken to domonsirate the feasibility tor
Terigation and the outlook for economic Success.

--- PÁGINA 45 ---
“ne
_— TRRIGATION WATER SALINITY (36, OF S0lt SUINITY (Hep)
ms oes wor | sa [a | se | eee]
EN EN Ce Eo EA
Saclay Gorden igre” wo sole eal erfm ou [aw
Goto (oenpon Hse) Fry PPRVY EY HE
Pap JRE] ery I) I
Sergi (Sorgen bioior) J FY
J I CIR] EVRY) Py Ram) FF
et, aur (ricirn sryide) | 5.0 38[ 76 sell ea lis wa ie
Sopven Gtyotn maz) FEY UR PRRDY EF
Comes (ign snguiniats) JRE REY ER) Re FE
Geom (ean) ERY IN AR PH
Timer papa)
stce (pty) (ovis sai) so none nefsa aa|ra waln one
supe (ssosaner crpiotaman | 17 11 | 06 23 | 5s eof eal 1
Core tants ie me) [ERY [PP PE PR PE
Tie (mm sotsattasimen) PERCY PE Bog (A PO
Seossen (tits fe) [ICY [PRY Pie or
bea (Pastas igarie) vo ar] ns ro] a ws] a es sa
Prespeery—r PEE [PPR EV) TR) FT
Tasirbiss ype ei)
Se. eed (hia easier PRES] PVRETY PPE PP
Sau, seating ie) ovary INF IR EP
[Cor —
sect. FERRY FRR FY PP PN
eretics oteraves bony)
tons tgocpeeioon ctor | 25 1.7 [ 13 23] 50 3a [ne soln wa
Camber (tums sitive) J oe Br PN
Seto (pinasia oterasa) to aafan az|sa sales solnow
prep —— FIR) PY (Pg Ir FY
coer SPN EJ] Povey ue Een
Posto (5oime rome) ERE) PPE] PP PO
postr REE PCY PAY I I
sent poco (mes Buttes) | 15 10 | 24 16[ 38 23 [en solu na
J — PES] PRY ge A PIA
[Pin ——— PERE) PRY egy PYRE PP
fora — ERY PR A FP
pore — PE) PRY PRY PR
Carta (om sires) FIR PAR IRR) PP [PR
Te Ohara miguel [REY NY PY PVR
hpre—— PREY PRY IE PU Pa

--- PÁGINA 46 ---
a

—

ee FN FA FE FN
FR
——

re A A Re
==
eu Wd A
te Th Mp
er Ch Ee Pe
Er EE EE
SET

i A
rE
SEs [EE EEE BE
=e

cro fl Fl
EE Pe Le
Ee th EE
Ee
le DR
ee
ce cE EE EE EES
Ertl EEE EE
Ermeed BIE EE HER
Ta FEE EEE
rl LE EE EE
ral ER Eb
Rome Rl
ral EE FR
Se

Rr I 0 A
Sem feel dh dl
CE i EE EERE EE:
Cet ad HEE EE EE EE
Trt
EE
EE EE pI EL
shee RHEE RES
Ele EE EE EERE
SE ECE EE EE EE
el EE EE EERE
Emr REREEAE EEE

--- PÁGINA 47 ---
Sm
PTpp—
Tigeo rorEwTiAL
Wr
rue caoes ox sor | saccinee]
= LAS LN
[TTT FRY FRR [EQERY Xue
Mackberey (2s 0.) sof zo 1a sb 2s eo wo
[r——— ER PY Ey pra
[res———] Rr ER RE Pa
© Atsptes from Mass an offan (197) and Mase (1986). Theas daca should only serve ae + guide
ative ekerancen among Seopa: ABOLULe Celarances vary dending upon <iimuccs seth
Coairtions nd cultural praceicess In Bypetterous soiie, Fite wilh tolerate show 3 $5/a
She Tt Teel ha Tad ET RT SAE Te
* ice meson sverage root sone anhadty a measured by electrical commetivity of the aacucscion
LE ol ctporien tn ductbiomams per mere (457m) 35-0 Bo moss Shecerical
Coisctiviey of the irrigecion water in ecitemne. ror atte (4S/mDe he relstionthly
Sevres sal etintt “sd ater Sebintty (tke = 13 BM) asm 4 13-30 poreunt eeshing
Fratton ms W00M0°ID percent water sae pattern for the apres to tower! auarters of the
FOoC ome Tk somatic vere wad 1a developing the gutdeiines fn able 10
* The sero yiels potestisl or sswimm Boe fadicaten the thescetical soil salinity (Ke) at
© Marley and when are lous tolerant during germination and seedling stage; Ke should mo
froiee fle php riiofranierripelip Raton
5 aaatn ace sore sonaitive during germination; Ke shold sot excend 3 45/a tn the seeding seek
? Solaramca given 10 an average of sevral variaties; Sevensce sad Comtal hermods grass sre
Rout Hp Fercent mete woictant, Wile Gomes and Grecia Bermuda. Exton ore ‘wt 20
Tervent Teds Woteeam
© Aeondlest Mrdstoot Trefoil scene less olerint thn Mscovlent Bicdatont Teetorle
Ce oS Sertens more foreman :
4 These data are aplcable hen cootacocke are send Shes do ret accumulate 1 ant CI” apidly
“ Tolerssce evaluation i bated on tren grove sad sot on viele.

--- PÁGINA 48 ---
Ee
mes Waris Bs Sogn 7 askin TAL Ros 1
py pr
[Ip cones a0 erage espn
sary borin igure —
eon dernipt Hep, “ieierasttize for
Ln. [=o Ueatgrase, sieser gure shes
Eg hn A
Grasses and Pocage Coops Wine ESI BL SITES
Makai grass, Ruseatd Peostyeiiia aiviiea i
Al fmm FE Segeiant cope
Bear fy Seal Setichte itt ares
ir hors estan eit Er =r)
ag prasisbosied Ba int Gli re
rir chases ices
Wha gyn cio po
frei ou Brag i ptiond send me grog
lie Remise Siis S ne r—
he prego
a py gtr
pret dep oppiavetea TEL Curler pays
re Roe An gran
Fora.
rep— [r——
—— ioe, test ng soar crop
ar Fs wguiiata Tooter: vis sia
an Prac cho pre fot ool
pipe pi fh
tone ort Tomtortis Th ami sisetam
Sr fle [TTI =
ten Cire a Crone iris hpi
ine Feet ly frie
fon pipe prey eg
Ri, rm pei i] rm ben
Er pr ——
Bley Clore) ota sigs Cones eto sori
einer eoryto: oo fire fr i,
Eres ren reed Bios aa ebteis
Fr Te a Fe —
ove mgt ition fri pl cpt
[reer PR a LA, pte Come stares
pore freeman Pei frogs
Er Soman BOSE
a rancion mia Glover, Ladiro. Tripotim repens
rr [ret
tet te Goes, swan TC
Mtr feiss fot 0 Gives; wate path ich fed
pati Snes it an
P— co Shek Cama bio tara
mir Cn, wi a REL
ais ii Goo, bie Svein granite
Tels stent ton nse Lovie Errore’
iticie woe IE, core dtiotin Teen
wan Corse rem ssi prea et ch
ome froceetyr ical prin
ident rene oot tore) auc erie

--- PÁGINA 49 ---
Sas
PRTpp—
[ep — JE
acess ant ocags rope Fire, S004 snd sugar crops
orn gis emis py Brsotus sigeris
(ae fp Hae jp
eins Seebonts sminate mo prs
fy pri
mn Segsabie crops
men pee Bn phoseatue viigarie
Teste, big [SRE ore oelmesia seaiensue
Parse [Fe
tegeabte crop
freer Sass teres rut aot scoops
fr pee sions preme aie
prey laces Sophie ; oars
per 5. oterses Sorry pee] Sorese aries
eres im grovetens ict ry
Fort mm RET.
Hastert lane mimpera Sree LIE
ae arseies saraoea Se frag
ae Gog
ot 2 oleres g Gover Tien
pity Larose revise Gapetruts pry
i mie veto fe Sm te
Tepper f= Loquat rns’ shy
frit er nn toma Eri
ratte Omit pep ee te mde i
a A Passics fruit Fuseiflors edule
prey frm Foire
FEI co lyon A 2) pd
fester bats fr fr
orereiom pm ree fone detion
Tut, ramwica ms Eapierey Bue Gisenp
Eten f=ity Loe Bue i
Fr ede
prs va cope resi Sree 5
Goan visto p. eit SE ln
[IS —
tolerances vary with clisate, oil conditions and cultural practices. -
Liecunces tas bo Toons 1 Toble and sae (190035

--- PÁGINA 50 ---
eo
o 5 © ws 2 ecu
a EEE EERIE et
os wos am ss mow,
0
£6, Ener conduct
Seg
ol Et
£0, = Bxcrcs Consus
® a
5 fate i
3
£ oo ec nsec,
&
$ wo
3
H unsure
H FoR Cows
20}
uooesaTeL\woDERATELY, TOLERANT
SERRE \ TOLER
o \
pe a Ne ee,
Ld
5 B 0 EB = ec,
asim
Pig 10 Divisions for relative salt tolerance catiuga of
series crops (dass 1984)
i Development of tolerance data
Numerical values for tolorance given in Tabla i were adapted
Iran data of Maas and Hoffman (1977) and Wass (1954) These data
{rdicate that plant grouth rate Gecreases linearly as salinity
[Reroams above 4 cEitical ‘thromold salinity at which Growth
rato first begins to Gecresse. This lincar dotroase in yield is
Tr Good sgrecmons with [iold data throughout tho usual range of
sa1dnity Deviations [rom the linear decrease occur at yields
Canalacrasly less than 30 percent of potential, at which level
Vielas ave Commercially unaceopeabls anyway.
the following equation (Naan and Hoffman 1977) expresses the
Craton Mine Saint, WEE 0n VILE and was vaca in ene
Prevaration of Taple 4.
¥ oe 100- bg, - a ao
heres ¥ = relative crop yiold (porcent)
BC, 1 salinity of the soil taturation extract in 4s/m
Ho I SHINY feastoid hails
DT lei an er nie Tncreaso in satiniey

--- PÁGINA 51 ---
Se

The values for (a) anc (b) are given by Maas in his original
Paper but can also be deternined from Table 4. The (a) vais
{the threshold Soil salinity) is the Eee value for 100 percent
yisla potential in Table 4. The (5) value can be determined from
Tapio 4 as follows:

fT] — an

Ec, at 0% yield - bc, at T00% yield
The Ce values of Table 4 for other than those associated with a
100 ‘porcont yield were calculated from the yield equation of
Haas ‘and Hot tan (1577) by rearranging equation (10) as follower
200¢ ano y

Ec, 5 az)
where FCe is the s0il salinity associated with a designated
Percent yie1d, ¥ tsce. Example 41.
In Table 4_values are prosnted for the potential yields of 100,
30,75, 50 and 0 percent. Table 4 also lists the applied
{rfigation water salinity (Cu) equivalent to the soil antinity
(Ce) developed by the es of equation (5). This concentration
factor from water salinity (ECe) to Roil salinity of 1.5 is
representative of a 13-20 percent leaching fraction. It was used
i the development of the guidelines, and concentration factors
£0r other leaching fractions are given in Table 3. The tolerance
ints SF Table 4 for water salinity assume that the soil sali
nity (Co) results from sccumilatin Of saltn coming from tho
Spplice irrigation water. If there ia a source of salr other
than the irrigation water, for example from a high water table,
the concentration relationship between water salinity (ECu) and
011 “salinity (ECe) is not valid, but the EC values given in
Tabled are still valid. It is again caphasiccd that the soil
salinity “(ECe) that is expected to develop following several
years of usc of a water sssumes that the water is the primary
Source of ‘soluble salts. If a water table i present, it is ah
additional salt source fot considered in the fixed felationship
Eco = 1.5 Bou,
If conditions of use consistently inaicate a leaching fraction
ther than 0.15 to 0.20, the concentration factor (1.5 £Cw =
Ece), will also be altforent and the equivalent water salinity
(EC¥) of Table 4 can bo changed and a new table prepared.
However, this should only be done if well documented local
Sxperience Confirms that the 1.5 Concentration factor docs not
SBply. The woll salinity valuos (ECe) presented in Table 4 for
Crop Colorance are belisved to be the best available to date and
Should not be changed. They are supported by extensive ana
worldwide field research. Changing the caching fraction to
SRango the concontration Factor 18 ono OF the options svallavic
for "Zontro1 of salinity. Table 3 presents concontration factors
for various Teaching fractions. Tove ate useful Co Predict soil
53T0n1ty (Boe) that is expected to result from use of water at
any given salinity and leaching fraction, as explained in a
previous section.
The majority of the yield data uses by Wass ana Hoffman (1977)
To develop their linear equation (fquation 10) vere for yields
Varying botween 50 and 100. percent yield potential. Recaure the
Yingar cquat ion predicts thise yields so well, It can be uscd to
Predict the approximate theoretical soil salinity (ECo) at which

--- PÁGINA 52 ---
“38
( ONPLE 4 ~ DETERIATION 07 YIELD POTENTIAL
| ror a cotton crop, ceom rave 4x
| + = salinity chreshold valve (ES, for 100 percent yield)
| Ys rose
Prom equation (11) and Table 4:
100
PTE, aOR yietd - £6, w TO0F ied an
Wheres b= slope of the yicld loss tine
bo S hercent edd Tons per 1 unit tncrense tn sot}
sitsniey Gel)
Substitucing 8 and b taco equation (12) for yield (1) ac 100 percent,
wo. Morey
c, - Bosal 7 esta an
The folloviag shows 5, corespondtag to indicated yield:
Focenetan vicis
Creteeat sm)
100 70
5 xd
Ia 5
5% I
g El
o ———
ol ——— mr rz
E
£3 %,
H Xe
5 3
2 so) —
H PEREAN
3 VN 2.
. VAN ANY
EN woo INS
H vl Nz
2 oo) NR N NE
\ \ \ NN
0 NAY \ ANN
\ \
) SEPE WL WE. VERE. Vi.
02 476 § 0 w woe Ww m0 wae 3 a so %
Saiity of 101 (Co in g/m)
fr Bethod of deteratoing mim Eco

--- PÁGINA 53 ---
Sa

the plant 1s presumed to bo unable to extract water, and growth
ceases (yield in this case would be zero). The maximum iC or
Ehe 0 percent ylold predicted by this procedure are given in the
Last column of Table’ 4. Figure 11 illustrates this projection to
the expected salinity for sero yield.
If the tolerance data are plotted in graphic form, crops with
similar tolerances forn groups. Boundaries and relative toler
ance ratings can thon bo 3ssigned to these groups, The schematic
dlagean in Figure 10 (Wass 1984) corresponds to the relative
tolarance ratings given earlier for the crops in Table 5. The
divisions, ‘although arbitrary, are useful for ganeral planning
ana for comparisons among crops. In thoss instances where
Suiticient data do not exist, a relative tolerance rating was
Gasigned to the crop, based upon best judgement from fisld
Gxporionce and observations (Mass 1984). According to the dia
Gram in Figure 10, crop tolerances have been grouped as follows:
Relative crop salinity Soil salinity (ECe) at

folerance rating. which yield loss begin
Sensitive <13 asm
Moderately sensitive 13 - 3.0 as/m
Moderately tolerant 3.0 6.0 as/m
Tolerant 6.0 - 10.0 as/m
Unsuitable for most
Crops (unless |
reduces yield 10.0 ds/m
is acceptasler
Lf there are fow crops in an area, it may be desirable to
prepare Soparato guidelines for sach specific crop or group of
Crops rather than use the broad guidelines given in Table 1.
Guidelines for an individual crop can be mors specific and are
Bottor aids to managers and cultivators for ovaluating the
Suitability of tho available water supply. An exanple Of Such a
Specific guideline in given n Table 6:

4. Factors affecting tolerance

Crop production potential using a particular irrigation water
can range from 100 percent down to sero but there are often
Factors other than water quality wich affect yielo. The
tolerance values in Table 4 represent production potential when
salinity 1s the only limiting factor. Such conditions, however,
G0 not Always exist. Other conditions may also limit production
but the relative yield lose duc to salinity will approsimace
those in Table 4 if salinity is the main limiting factor.
The soil salinity tolerances in Table 4 apply primarily to crops
from late seedling Stage to maturity. Tolerance during the Gor-
mination and early seedling stage may be different and is only
Clearly defined for a fow crops. Tabls 7 presents data for a few
Crops showing soil salinity thai resulted in a 50 percent reduc.
Sion in either yield or seedling smergence. In ganeral, if tne
soil salinity in tho surface soil (vooding area) iv groator than
27as/m, it may innibit or delay germination ang early seedling
Growth. this slowed germination may thon delay tacegence, allow
Tng"S0i1 crusting and alscasc probicas to reduce the Crop stand.
Rainfall or pre-plant irrigations will often help to maintain
Low salinity, delay crusting and prosote good emergence.

--- PÁGINA 54 ---
Caw-
able 6 GUIDELINES FOR INTERPRETING LAMOIATORY DATA OK WATER. SUITABILITY
Fou GRAPES,
ree of Restriction on Ure
Potential Ircigation Problen  Untes  —— oh OC!
Nose slight to Wederate severe”
Saltatey” (azure weer
avatlabtiity to ovope)
we, amr Lo - 27 S21
Toxtetey (epanitia oma whisk
SFtant grouch of ares)
Sodium a)" wn <2 - -
Chloride (ci) wn <4 ass 1
Boro (3) wa <1 ios 5)
Miscellaseous
Beacbonate MO0)' me L3 L3- 7.5 1
Niteatenitrogen (WON) g/l © 5 523 23

© adapted trom aja et al. 1978

* Special management practices and favourable soil conditions are required for
successful production.

7 Assumes that rainfall and extea water applied owing to inefficiencies of soraal
irrigation will supply the crop feeds plus about 15 percest extra for salinity
concrol+

“WER overhead prtakler irrigation, sodtus or chloride fn excess of 3 me/l under
“xtrens drying conditions may result in excessive leaf absorption, leaf burn and
Sop damage. Tf overhead sprinklers ace uscd for Cooling by frequent on-off cycling,
anage may occur even at lover Soncentiat ions.

* Bicarbonate (H00:) in vater applied by overhead sprinklers may came white deposits
on Fruit sod leaves which reduces marker acceptability, but is moc toxic Lo the
Plane.

Table 7 RELATIVE SALT TOLERANCE OF VARIOUS CROPS AT GERMIGATION'

EE— TT
ceo Easrgence reduction

FEAT
Barley [re p— 16-28
Coron (Gosaypien Hines) 155
Suparbees (Bees vuigarie) 6-2
Sorghun  (sengher bisoier) 13
Saiflover (Curtin tinotoriue) 12.3
meat (10 biom cestinen 1-6
Beer, red (pies mulgarte) 15a
Alfaita (etiam niin [XRT
Tomato! [rat —— ia
ace (orzo exvioe) © 1s
Cibbage (Asani oieraons capitate) 13
re 10.6
Maize (223 wage) 2-2
Litas (lates sation) fry
Suton ities se - 1s
Bean [Phapiotus maigarie) 0
+ oars aken from Mass (1980).

--- PÁGINA 55 ---
Sa

Rootstocks usea for cerzair tree (citrus, almonds, stome-fruit)
ana vine crops (grapas) can appreciably influence salinity
Eolerance. Roatstotks GLEfer in iaoir abilisy to exclude salts
especially the toxic sodiu and chloride tone. With a reduction
inthe ‘ancunt absorbed. aceurulaz on is reduced. This character
istic for exclusion has allowed selection of commercially
acceptable rootstocks as well me vacicties Loc inproved product
“ion ‘undor saline conditions of soil or water.
varietal ifferences also exist anceq cultivars of annual crops.
The greatest atiferences in toletance appear to. bo awons
selections from cultivazs of the moze Salt tolorant crops. A few
may be significantly more or loas :olorant than indicated in
Table 4. A'careful screening of available varieties ia sssential
SE salinity Of applica water makes olocance critical.
Plant breeaing ard selection for salinity tolerance have only
Fecantly been urdortaker to any appreciable extent. Initial
Fesults' are promising and have Simulated new research in
genetic salt tolerance, particularly among closely Felated
Varieties or strains wizrin a vaciety. 1f successful, plant
breeding and geno seloc:ion €or Salitity tolerance may greatly
expand our ability to Lse kore saline wator supliss, but any new
information on tolerance should be used with cautions Any new
variotios developed, and nav.ng greater tolerance, should be
Judea on Chair own merits, A number of years (5-15 or more)
iL] probably be nesde: before oven a few new, more salt
folerant crops are ccanercially availasle and corpetitive in
yield “ang ‘quality with presen: var.eties. The tolerances given
In Table ¢'aze expected to rexain valid for most of the crops
€or the foreseeable future.
Climate aiso affects crop tolerance so salinity and drought. In
General, crops grown ir coolor Climates of during the cosler
time of the year will have a higher tolerance to Salinity then
similar crops grown durirg warmor, drier periods. Since crop
demand for water 1s loss during the coolor periods, the effect
Of reduced water availability duo to salinity ia not 86 critical
ana a greater proportion of rainfall of applied water may be
avatlasle to loach accumulated malts. In conteant, however,
Guring periods of very Ligh FT demand, as in summer mcntns,
Under ROL, ary cond tions, wate: bbocption by the plant roots
may not be adequate due to both rapid depletion of soil water
and increased salt concentration arours the roots. Under these
Conditions, the plants may Show earlier water stress than
anticipated’ tron normal bIlK soil sampling and water stress may
Bo critical during extended periods of Kot dry winds. Climate
appears to affect sal: sensisive crops to 4 much greater extent
ERI salt =olorans ‘ones.
Fertilization has littie effect on salt tolerance. If fertility
isa limiting factor, proper fertilization will increase yields,
but’ it fortilization ie rot 1Imizing, asdctional farilizer will
not inprove salt tolerance. Since ceri:lizers ars for ine most
pact soluble salts, tixing ant placement are important, and
Onloss properly apslied they may coneribuse to or cause a
salinity problen.

2.4.4 cultural practices
The primary management options co control salinity were dis

cussed in the preceding sections: adequate arainage, leaching to

--- PÁGINA 56 ---
Sa
control salinity within the tolerance of the crop or, Lf this camot be
Gone, change to a more salt tolorant crop that requires loss leaching
for adequate salt control. These management practices are the ones most
appropriate for long-term salinity control but there are soparate
Ciftural practices that can have a profound effect upon germination,
arly seedling growth and ultimately on yiold of crop. Low yields are
Gfton the result of obtaining poor crop stands during the germination
Or" Barly ssdling stage of growen. These short-term cultural practices
hat aid in salinity control become more iportant as th irrigation
water salinity increases, and are often done on an annual or continual
Danis. They include land smoothing for better wator distribution,
Vining of Irrigations to prevent crusting and water stress, placement
ot mead to avoid areas likely to be 8alin zed, and care in selection of
materials, rate and placement of fertilizers.
i. Land smoothing or graging
Salinity control is difficult if a field is not sufficiently
graded to permit uniform wator distribution. Salts accumulate in
he high spots which have too little penetration sna leaching
{water “runt Off), while water accumulates in low-lying areas
which causes waterlogging and potential ralnage problems.
Gorminat ion is often poor in high spots due to shortage Of water
ana excessive salinity, While in low areas, similar poe crop
Stands may result from waterlogging and Soil crusting. Tne most
Gifficult problems occur with flood (Border check oF Strip
Chock) irrigation whoress sprinkler or localized (arip) irriga
Vion require smoothing of grading only to the oxtont needed to
prevent water from acoumilating excessively in low areas.
Land smoothing (land planing) simply smooths the soil surface.
Although a good practice, it doss not grade a £ield and is not a
Substitute for land levelling to a sot gradient or slope. Land
moaning in often an annual practice or is tono every few years
To ensure uniform water distribution when annual crops arc
Changed, In contrast, land grading is usually a one-time
practice whers ‘cuts’ from one part of a tield aro fransportod
To another area of the same field and sprea as ‘fill’ to raise
tho Tovel in that ares. After his one-time field grading is
Gone, land smoothing oF 4 less extensive Land grading ls done to
Festore the field slope or gradient which may have changed
Slightly dus to cropping, cultivations and irrigations.
Recant deep alluvial soils can be smoothed oF graded with little
FISK of greatly damaging Soil quality but the olser, mature and
Tayerea alluvial or residusl soils may be Gifficul to smooth,
12/aT ‘or Grace to a sat slope without serious structural damage.
Land grading causes a S1nificant amount of soil compaction duc
othe weight of the hoavy equipment and it is asvisable to
Eo110e tin operation with subsoi:ing, eniselling, or ploughing
£0 broak up the compaction and restore OF improve water intil-
ration:
$5. Timing of irrigations
The timing of irrigations fo provent water stress will improve
Tho chances for success when using niger salinity water.
Irrigation timing may incluce increasing the frequency of
irrigation, irrigating prior Lo a winter rainy Soason, and Using
pro-plant or other practices to ais in germinating the crop. The
Goa1'of irrigation timing la to reduce Salinity ana avoid water
Stress between Lrrigations.

--- PÁGINA 57 ---
See
Water stress between irrigations can often be eliminated by
increasing the frequency Of irrigations, thereby preventing
excessive root zone depletion caused by too long an interval
between Irrigations. By decreasing the interval between irriga-
tions, a higher soll-vater availability is maintained.
Increasing the frequency of irrigations may not always produce
the desired results. For example, with furrow and thet flood
methods, a change to more frequent Lcrigation may result in an
lnacceptable increase in depth Of water applied, a corresponding
decrease in water uso Sfficiency and. condoquent drainage
problems. These irrigation methods are generally less efficient
Because’ the aepth of water applied per irrigation cannot bo as
casily adjusted as iith sprinkler or arop. With tne more
ficient methods of irrigation, increased frequency may not
Greatly increase water use.
More frequent Lreigations may not be practical except in aress
where water can be taken on domand. A Good knowledge Of Crop
“ator demand ‘as the season advances is necessary to doterming
Droper froguency. The methods for estimating crop water cemand
UBT) and the periods of greatest sensitivity ace discussed in
Donen (1971); Doorentos ana Pruitt (1977) and boorenbos and
Kassan (1979)
Salts from higher salinity irrigation water can accumulate
rapidly in the top ow centimetres of the soil ue to surface
evaporation during nan-crop periods, particularly it a nign
water table 1s also prasent and tho climate is hot and dry. Tho
Stent of accumulation is influenced by salinity of both the
irrigation wator and the water table, ‘If prosont. Under much
conaltions, Ged germination, seedling development snd yield may
ba seriously reduced. A pro-plant leaching irrigation in often
Used to renave those surface Salt concentrations.
IE winter rainfall is {nsuficiont to leach the accumulated
salts fron the topsoil, applying an irrigation before the onsot
Sf Tinited winter rains refills the upper soil with water and
the winter rains may thon be relicd upon to provise sufficient
wator for loaching. Rainfall is excellent in quality and Loachos
Salts out of the seed areas, thus Gliminating Germination prob
Tens. Late autumn or early winter irrigation is a good practice
ina Medlterranoan climate where Winter rains may not provide
211 "the necessary leaching. Winter plus pro-plant irrigations
Give the user of less tnan ideal quality water greater tloxi-
Sility in timing of irrigations during th growing season.
When using water of moderate to high salinity (ECw >1.0 ds/m)
germination in often poor due to sits sccusulating in the seed
Zou, especially when Crops are scoded on raised beds and furrow
[rrigated. A common practice among growers of lettuce, Lomatoes
and other sensitive annual crops 15 to use sprinklers to reduce
salinity to obtain better germination, to lower surface soil
Eomporaturcs and improve early soodling growth. Irrigations are
applied one or more times each day for several asye and for
£olatively short periods Of tine - 1 to 3 hours: dua ions Attor
10 to 13 Gays che sprinklers sre moves to another £1014 and
Pormal furrow or (loo Irrigations aro applicd as needed. One
Sarinkler aysten can be used for germination and carly groweh of
Several difforont olds in a season.
Overnead sprinklers cause problems for cortain sensitive crops
“hon chloride oF Sodium Is relatively high. These concentrate as

--- PÁGINA 58 ---
aa
water evaporates between sprinkler rotations and are then ab-
Sorbed in excessive amounts by the loaves vet by tne sprinklers.
Those problems cceur mostly with slowly rorating SDrinKIeF heads
20" 'are agoravates by dow rates of application. Soaius or
Chloride {A the water in excess of about 3 mes) causes the
Droblen. similer provies can occur dus to OFLfe of ‘Spray from
EocinkToes apoly ing moderately hioh salinity water. fhe tokicicy
Guts Sopets’ ad Tear burn (necrosis) oh ‘the leat-eoges ans
Cane CONCirmed by leaf analysis for ehloride and sodium.
TEFigating curing periods of Migher mmidity. as at mighty has
often greatly reauted or ofininated the provien. Annual crops,
Tor tis most part. are not very sensitive to lou levels of
5031un and chloride but all crops will be affected if the
Concentration ia hin Snoush. Theso problems are 4iscussed. in
more detail in Section 413.
11. Placement of seed
Salinity reduces or slovs germination and it is often difficult
£0 cbtain 4 Sat atactory Stand of furrow irzigeted crops on
010ne 3011s Cr when using moderately saling water. In some
Cases, growers plant two or three fines as much 550d 33 noraal;
Hoping %o oftact the reduced Gernination. Increasing the amount
£208 Planted can give higner plant density (Tasle 8) bur may
Sha Tasuit in aqaitional thinaing costes sven then tne plant
Population may not be uniforn an incresaed yields camct be
E¥iuneas A Botiar alternative might be to MAO. sPEFOBFiate
S35Ustninta in planting procedures to ensure that ine soil
Ground the gormihacing Hesds ia sufficiently lov in salinity:
SUL a 1 Pint ing peace ices, bey snapes, and. irrigation manage
ment can greatly enhance salt coneral during the eritical
Germination period.
Tiles EFTECE OF PLANTING RATES ON SEEDLING ESTARLISRMNT OF chops
SPAINKE TRRICATED WITs DIFFERENT QGALLFE WaTen I TSRATL'
Seatieg rate ontons Garo Tr
Commie Toe lem —
mele To ae Lo“ Tn we
100? vw mx ww
1% Boos oa on ow ou
0 ERE EE TE
oats taken from Pasternak (1979).
* Acceptable field pracesce ta Tucaet.
With furcow irrigated crops planted on raises beds, wator
Bovament 1% (ron. the Surror Ata the bad. Since wares Woven {rom
The To Eurzovs towards. the centre of the bed, any salts present
Hove with the WAL ANG lend to scoumlate in tho upper centre
57 "\ne Bea ‘planting sesda ino ‘Single Tow in the contre of a
Castes bed places the weed oactly in the ares uners salts
Concentrate “(Figure 2a), Planting a Gouple-row on a raised
Planting bea (Figure 120) Vill place the two sooo. rows near cash
Shouluor Of tho raiscu bod, sway from the ares of greatest salt
Seckmulacion. py this planting rechod, soil and water melts
FETT Concentrate near fre Contre oi tnd bea but awey trom the

--- PÁGINA 59 ---
ue

send rors and germination is Likely to be barter i¢ seliniey is
bye
There are oaper planting siternatives. Alternate rou frrigacion
hein Sia tlt aro Arlanslen
aay hole; 52 the beds bee verted from best eles; tha felts
Teor ee Te "Thcotasee Tove a, Lee pated: Sn. suis on ba” noted
Lao eff shternets fou sev, leslgessd; Sh sels Sinbe sored
SEINE TOS TOL TBE, LB) The WIE SEL
maaan a shou sur th ped slammer matured
FA RB VE]
fugrev, {plows 126) hae vleg bag esd und aids germination
tnder ale seid Condit lon, Buhler PALL vin Sli
En Ln En,
was 4 EN
ow seo =" 7 N= = =
For - SF = =
rie a Fe pp—

ry
Wich thes single or double-rou planting, if salts are a
Bish atvinr stoke, or dembiosem planeta, it alve aro 3
Be a urea Ta ere 130) “aca
£0,040 1 lagroveg soralnaclon, trlaures 126 and Lin). Weill
rrp RE OR J Re cece
JU LA Se 4 A qh teed, ro placed
dunt hme oh meer, Joe, (Tu PU SIE OR Ae
Snel he Yorsine, Leen hus mone Sek) Bans 108 PASC ny
SoU mtn for £, Sire ro opine, bed Ie, gtd
10, caltrats and comers peck fo, 5 comancina}, reland, ord, 48
on Seo TT RAB par

oo
-
Pn SEEN ' ro
— —
ms Soom

Hes Seip coed veh sieping vin

Rm te
anocnar widoly sod modification of the misgle-cos siopiny bud
poeshar widely, wed sodkticnuion of ue wimalerses siopios od
Be ore Tae water S200 0
fire control; The seeds tes lattes Just shorn tho ater Tint 12
ee Fen To
Lomperasirs & fax, dsmrem umes lo Laeorianty ts, ticking bed
eo oe Tor Semtrra: Savereion
EE EN Ti re A or bg

--- PÁGINA 60 ---
= +h (RENE ZNE [AIH
[3 os \
=: die = PTR
NST NTT
mee Th
Siu RES. TIT
H Sod line wcotes ruil of + cong bed shape Oered ne cows |_| |
hn, ms sme Sn
H Re A
HH RESSRNESNwaRup=aas
LATIN pe INA
FH i saa] TET Hi
0 a TT 1]
de Spies sei rss es 5)
PaaS aba a
Le 5 Slo wt er sine sd see cn
J —,
foi
. . “
—
=
=
pS,
NU
q
kN!
I CE NS SS
EH :
er me rr 1 5 ee 5 nr
Somat se
ask

--- PÁGINA 61 ---
Care
For different soil salinities, the diagrams in Figure 16 show
the effectiveness of modifying the shape Of tho planting beds.
Actusl response will depend on the initial soil salinity, tne
irrigation method, the irrigation water salinity, and the crop
tolerance during Germination. Since salinity slows germination
Of ‘many crops, holding the water in the furrows fof a longer
Period sometimes Improves omergonce by maintaining moist soils,
Feducing crusting, and it actually dilutes or reduces salinity.
The larger seeded crops, such as maize, are sometimes planted in
the water furrow for improved germination under saity condi-
tions. Grapes, too, are sometimes grows in the botcom of wide,
£lat Eurrovs or at the bottom of wide, gently sloping V-shaped
furrows. Much of the root zone then remains relatively low in
alinitr.
iv. rertilization
Fortilizors, manures, and soil smendmonts include many soluble
S31ts in nigh concentrations. If placed coo closs to tne
germinating seedling or to the growing plant, the fertilizer may
alse or ‘aggravate a aalinity or toxicity problem. For example:
an application of 50 kg por hectare of nitrogen (240 kg/ha of
Zmnon lum aulphate) “would cause no salinity problem if spread
Gniformly over a one hectars area. Howover, if drilled with the
seed at planting tine, it would probably reduce germination or
growth of seedlings and might result in crop failure caused by
he high salinity of the fertilizer placed too close to tne
seed.
Care, therefore, should be taken in placement as well as timing
of Fertilization. Seedlings are sensitive to salts and, while
Small, require little fertilization. A small amount Of farti-
Tizec ‘can be applicd at of before planting, and tho remainder in
one or more spplications after crop emergence but before the
Rain growth period. Tn addition, a fertilizer with a lower salt
Thdex’ can bo considered. The lower the salt index of tho
£orcilizor, the less danger there is of salt burn and damage to
seedlings or young plants. Salt Indices for various fertilizers
2£e shown in Table 9.
Salt tolerance of a crop is generally considered to be un-
Sffected by raising tho lovel of soil fertility above that
Rocessary to Supply needed nutrients for optimum growth.
However, if both Salinity and Low fertility are limiting yield,
Correction of either cr both will improve yield. 1, however,
The Fertility is adequate and the salinity is limiting, further
increasing tho Fortilicy will not Incroass yield or improve the
salt tolerance of the crop (Bornstein, Francois and Clark
1974).
2.4.5 changing Metnods of Irrigation
The method of irrigation directly affects both the efficiency of
water use and the way Salts accumulate. Flood and Sprinkler irrigation
are designed to apply water cvonly ovor tho ontiro irrigatod area. This
fetults 1h ont GF tnd “Sales accimulacing in the lower root sons. Ths
Gogeoo of accumulation depends upon the leaching fraction. Figure 2
1iistrates soveral typical salinity profiles resulting from surface
Flosaing or aprinkler irrigation at leaching fractions varying from 0.1
0 0.4.

--- PÁGINA 62 ---
Cee
Tabled RELATIVE EFFECT oF FERTILIZER MATERIALS ON THE SOIL SOLUTION ®
© Loess FPaFCIAD SAE Tadex per
. ratertal Sele Iden? guitar rane Nuretent
Jr — a1 0.5m
Aemoniia nitrate 1007 219%
fmontim aitrata-lise Lise 252
Ammonium phosphate (11-48) 209 2a
fmmantun Sulphate Ex 5.53
Calcium carbonste (Hmestone) wr 0.08
Cilciim cransmide silo Tare
Caletim nitrate ss aluos
Caletim sulphate (gypsum) pe 0.207
Disamonium phosphate fix Lik
Dolomite (calcium and magnesiva
Carhonsces) os 0.002
Kinde, 13.57 10529 as
Kata] 1751 109.4 pe
Manure anlia, 20% 12.7 sles
Manure sales) 300 sls i007
Nonoamonium phosphate fred 21)
Monocalciun phosphate. ji 0.218
Nitraze of sods 100.0 51060
Nitrogen solution 37% 7s 21100
Nitrogen solucion 407 706 12
Potassiua hlocide, 50% 10914 218s
Potassium chloride 607 118.3 Liss
Potassium chloride, 631 fie} rr
Potassium aiteate ja 3133
Potassium sulphate pret prey
Sodium chloride 15308 2899
Sulphate of potash-aagnesta wl he
Superphosphate, 16% 7h oli
Superphosghate, 20% 78 per)
Superphosphate, 43% 101 0.220
Superphosphate, 181 1001 0.210
Uremon pny 1519
Des 7st hey
+ Daca taken from Rader (1943).
© The sale fades fs for variow fertiliser materials when applied at equal
eighe. ation nitrate, with 8 salt fadex of 100, ie weed as 4 base For
dade.

Figure 17 snows the salt accumulation patterns for surface
£1008ing Or Sprinkler irrigation which aoply o uniform Gepih of water
across the entire £iold as contrasted to the malt accumulation patterns
From furrow or localized (drip, trickle or spitier) irrigation which
apply wator to only part Of the [lela surface. In the case of furrow
iffi%aion, salt huilas up with depth in the soil Similar to flood
irrigation, but salt also accumulates in the areas not covered by
water. Salt moves wlth the ater to tho high pointe where the water
ovaporates most rapidly and is leached to greater opths as wator
Grains by graviey. vor localized irrigation, salts sccumulato af che
“ages of the @oll wetted from the emitter. This results in a wetted
Sphorical shape with Salinity highest at the outer eages of the sphere.

--- PÁGINA 63 ---
CTE Ee | IN
Ap So EE Se EE — —— i ==" spun merenses
rl ri
LAWL ANN AAT AIL... cee
J 2; (S)(S) Eee

--- PÁGINA 64 ---
Sse

Isolated pockets of accumulated salt frequently result where
water does not infiltrate sufficiently to accomplish leaching. These
Can be raised areas, aroas Of more dense soil, or areas for getting
enough water during ‘irrigation. Typically these show as bare spots or
areas of reduced or stunted growths A well designed sprinkler system
Generally provides the greatest uniformity of application, but this is
Seton a problom no matter which system is used.

Each irrigation method has certain advantages and disadvantages
and all known factors should be considered before attempting to. improve
Salinity control by changing tho method,

With surface flooding methods (flood, basin and furrow), depth
of applied water ontering the SOLL varies with location in the {161d
na "Gepends on the infiltration rate and time available for intilo
tration. Differonces in the rate of infiltration are caused by land
slope, degre of compaction, textural changes, and soil chemistry.
The. opportunity time during which infiltration can take place ales
varies; the upper end of the field nearest the water Source usually
has water on its surface for a much longer time than doos the lover
end.” The driest area is typically abot two-thirds of the Gistance
Gown the field. High spots in tne field also receive less water
because, being high, they are covered by loss wator and for a shorter
period.

Those surface flooding methods are usually not sufficiently
€loxible £0 apply less than an 80 co 100 nm depth per irrigation. As 4
result, irrigating more frequently to reduce possible water stress may
3150 waste water ana cause waterlogging and drainage problems. In order
To relieve water stress, it may be taser to increase the frequency of
irrigation with sprinklers or drip irrigation rather than with surface
Elooding. Nouever: sprinkler and localized irrigation have their
problems too and are not adapted to ail conditions of waters soil,
Climate, or type of crop.

A well-designed sprinkler systos will apply water with good
uniformity and at rates of application low Snough to prevent runoff If
wel) managed, ic will result in an excellent overall irrigation and
Rdequate and unifora leaching. Depth of sater applied is controlled by
a0justments in the duration of application, sprinkler spacing and
nozzle size. Wing can stort tho water patterns and must bo con-
Siderea. Sprinklers are ‘scastimes used to aid in temporature concrol,
gormination and early seedling growth at Which Lime tho crop may bo
Barticularly ‘Sensitive to salinity, nigh tomparaturss snd soil Crust
ing. on sensitive crops, however, sprinklers can cause lcat burn Lf the
ailis (sodium or cnloride) concentrate excessively on the leaves as
ater ovaporatos between rotations of tne sprinkler. Those salts arc
absorbed ana may cause a Lowicity. These problems arc discussed in
Gotail in Section 4.3.

One of the concerns expresses about sprinkler use in hot arid
aroas Ls the evaporation Loss during sprimkling and the possible
Snerease in salinity of the water that infiliraces the soil, but there
is no clear evidence that this evaporation is significant enough to
“warrant concern. Ono £icld study in the Imperial Valloy of California,
USA, using a solid set sprinkler system, showed that evaporation losses
on a hot, dry cay (temperature 47'C, relative humidity 27 percent and
wind sposd’ 3.7 km/h) caused a 20 percent increase in water salinity
(xCw) “Near the fisla sage but loss than 5 percent within tne sain
portion of the flela (Robinson 1575). Othor trials have shown Similar
Seaport ion losses. A concontration Factor of less than 5 percent is
Sxpectea to nave little Sffect, but the 20 percent factor could cause
Some difficulty for salt sensitive plants at the edge Of the field.

--- PÁGINA 65 ---
Sse

Localized irrigation systems (drip, trickle or spitter) apply
water ona daily or near daily basis st a very low appiication ats
{2-8 1i%res ‘por hour per emitter). The near Saily replenishment of the
water used by che crop Keeps tho soil moist and vers mear ro or
Slightly above Eleld water Folding capacity. The  irrigatioms should
Saiftain 3 slight but Nearly continuous downward movement of moistur
3nd salts for oxcollont 'snort-tern salinity control. Irrigation
Sficioncy can be close to ‘L0G percent’ Guring tha cropping perioa;
Reaning that the crop vapotranspiration demand can be met essentially
VITRouUt Lossos dus to runstf or Geop penetration.

Salts also accumulate with localized irrigation. However, they
accumulate “at” the Soil surface between emitters ang at the. outsien
S330 of the arcs uetted by the waver applicators (igure 17). With
tine, This Salt “accumilation at the soll surface and in the wetted
Eringe ‘botueon emitters can Bacome appreciable, and is a hazard If the
210 is then moved by Fain into the root sons of the crop or; in the
Case of annual crops, if 4 now planting is made in these saity aress
Without prior laching. On the other hand, If rainfall is sulficient
Sach season to leach the accumulated salts, no problems should be
SRticipatod. Tho mont dangorous period is thought th be. Just atier. the
£irst Faintill hen the surface alt has been moved down into the root
20n6 but SuEticlont rainfall nas not yer fallon to move the salt below
tho roo: ‘zone. It ia recommenced that regular irrigations continue
during a rain or until 50-100 mm has fallens I¢ rainfall is ineuffi:
Client, Supplemental leaching with the localized system may be needed.

Loaching by sprinklers or surface flooding after a season of
localized irrigation and before replanting nas been effective in
Eomoving accumulated salts. However. this may require a second irrlga:
Fion yiten and will require large quantities of additionsl water, bu
£t7may bo nocossary for continued good production when wilizing
relatively saley water ang localised irrigation:

With good quality water, yields with localized (drip) irrigation
should “bo ogual “to, Sr ELihily botter than other methods under
Comparable conditions. With higher salinity eater. (suo 1.0 db)
yieias are oiten hatter, duo to the continuous high moisture content
Haintatned by Wally roplonishment of the water wea by tho Crop:
Frequent sprinkler irrigetion might ive similar results, but teres
indicate the probability of excessive loaf burn and defoliation {rom
16a” ansorption Of Sodium and enloride, ana redustion in yield. if
accumilating salinity oxcoods crop tolerance with the usual method of
irrigacion, a etter viola may be possible with localized irrigation.

Sub-irrigation, adapted to only a few situations is accomplished
by rapidly causing the water table into the root sons, and after a for
Bours ts 3 day of ‘two, draining Lt to prevent aeration problems. Lapsed
Tine” for na rise and fall of the wator fable is 2-5 Saye. The upward
ovement of the water tends to concentrats Salts on or nesr the Surface
Trrispictive of nether the salinity originates from the wator tablo or
the B11, Sait accumulation unt bo controlled by adequate Fantail or
pre-plant eacring. Sub irrigation cannot be used with poor qualicy
Sroundeator unless tho soil is leached periodically by natural sain:
NS Hedi opi (oa Loncning wacer-

Figure 18 snows salt distribution patterns resulting from
various metnos of Irrigation of bell peppers. 1¢ also hows that each
RSUhoq rosulted In a significantly different yield althoigh the same
Gmount of water was spplicd. With localised (Seip) irrigation, s oro
{eiGated with what 1s. normaily cons iserad 500d duality water (Cu = Of
457m) yielded nout 50 percent more than tho sprisier and furrow
Frigatod plante. Th advantage of the localifed system war more

--- PÁGINA 66 ---
Ss
pronounced wich the higher salinity irrigation water (60w = 3.0 ds/m).
Bort ot he aiiterance in 7ie1d San, brobsly bo" explained by the chose
Blacomont "oe" the onixtars io the ‘DLincs an sors Freduent freigacions
EL focaltacs (rvigarion méunos, his provides good osiiniey
Snteal in Contrast. 10 ibm Semage By sbmRBLIGK OF sedton oc “miorich
Chrouah lasses waries by he ‘vechesd sorimore:
LOW-SALNITY WATER SALINE wATER
Eowe08 45m ness am
ae ve
Ld FuRRow hd
ne 00 wp
| i
J a oa.
" a wef
- - Fig. 18
one
wo sea jear Soin eeinisies in prams row
od cts waded reli
ny 4 ow Popper, using two licier
a ae Sse rion water, 7 ties
werd rey ma bein hs fon
“I - = figure in each pair indicates
- J Re)
. hae otter seasceie so hancots
R B Gi)
semen
oh = 2
x i.) =f,
sot stmt, Eqs)
2.4.6 and Development tor salinity control
To foregoing atscussion of salinity control siternatives
cxphasises pravtioes tat are. sedured Sach ware or For each eras. nd
repeated Fraduenily as Sppoeci to. shove. Shar nay bu ver foraed once
Seng ey So dm Pm at a 58 PCOS
Gororiotatcd land. Those latter Cechmidues ace seldom opested an are
Sion CERES dai amiire seria ryiebring co Sempieter Frets soul Le
Be Tuprave” sxiat Ing. soli qondLs tome pochanencs to wreet on Hake
(rrition: SA1nity Sonkrol end croviing satiarl Tpieet practises
por Soemed during Sevelopeent siaser are. 1evar) ing Sand tos sion
Bre estast aning  soegiace arises Veoverad or Span scans), boop
Plowing or S110 plowing. to sites the Soil prarise PYEICslls, and
Teachings cotuce rceinive satiny.

--- PÁGINA 67 ---
Cs

Land graging
Salinity control is @ifficult if lana is not sufficiently level
£0 allow satisfactory water distribution and uniforn infilira
tion. Land grading changes the natural slope of the £ield to a
uniforn grade. A Certain amount of Soil compaction is caused and
it’ {a advisable to follow the land grading procadure with sub.
soiling, chiselling or ploughing to break up tne compaction
caused by the heavy land ‘Grading equipment and. inprove unifora-
ity of water ponecration and leaching. Land pisning Simply
smooths the surface and, although a good practice, cannot be
considered equal to, or a substitute for land grading. Land
grading and land smeothing are also discussed in Section
eat.

4. Inproved subsurface drainage
Subsurface drainage problons and shallow water tables greatly
complicate salinity control. Shallow water tables frequently
ocCur duo to the prosence of a slowly permosblo layer below tho
Soil surface such'as a clay barrier, hardpan or bedrock. brain
ago problems are moat froquently caused by over irrigation but
may 2150 be Caused by secpage from upslope areas or leakage from
Canals. The most effective control of salinity associated with a
hallow water table is Eirst to lover and stabilize the water
fable. A discussion of drainage needs is presented in Section
2.4.1" as one Of the primary options considered for controlling
salinity caused by poor quality water. An in-depth discussion of
drainage noods, Surveys and designs is given: in Dieleman and
Tratfors (1976) and Dicleman ot al. (1980) If new land 1a being
brought into production, drainage must be considered, ana it i
ossential for ‘the long. term success of any irrigation project or
irrigated ara. If drainage problems are in any bay to be
anticipatea, plans for their immediate or Future control must be
formulated.’ With adequate drainage established, surface soil
salinity can be controlled by LErigation management.

11. Deep cultivation
Stratified or layered soils are difficult to irrigate otticiont-
Iy "Layers of cluy, sand or hazdpan frequently impede or prevent
top percolation of water which is sential for salinity
Control. Irrigations to supply crop water demand plus salinity
control can be greatly simpliticd if those layers are broken,
Gostroyed or at least made more permeable to wator. Subsoiling
210 chiselling ars considers to bo temporary iprovoments only
an ‘are often short-lived (1-5 years), whoroas deep and slip
ploughing can permancatly improve intornal drainage. These are
Gsually dono aftor land grading and drainage but bofore any
necded reclamation. beep of Slip ploughing 1s costly and usually
necessitates growing an annual Crop such as bariey following the
Ploughing, to allow the alsturbod soil to sottle: Following one
Se tio barley crop, a touch-up land grading to re-estalish ine
Proper gracing is aiso usually necessary. In many casos. wind or
Nater-atposited sande are sufficiently stratified and dense so
Ehat deep ploughing or deep chinelling will greatly improve crop
Eotponss and yield

iv. meclanation leaching
If salinity is oxcossive and greatly exceeds tho tolerance of
the Damned Groph, a major leaching fo lower Salinity (reciama-
Elon) may bo necessary before cropping is possible. Tha salts

--- PÁGINA 68 ---
Can
vor
e | CONTINOUS PONDNG
gost
fod | H .
H Degen of Leaching water ex nic
IRE oust deren 51 1 reed 1 reclaie
i o ST el Cat
£ Senting Gatiaen 1509)
5 oal bh)
3 cua
3s | SRG NG
I A 8
N B ~
FET
H shor .
£ TeT—
RE —ty EC) zc
Dust of leona wr er ut Con 41, 4d
10
+ | © INTERMITTENT PONDING
:oalt o sur cua
i * + Low
: R ra
Sod |¢
£ gece of leaching water ser uae
H B Geren oF ani eutres 0 Techaie
LE ine Sh
& Tnctraiceencty Gotroan 1940)
zoe \ 0
i
Foz .
Lr Yi
os Te Ts wa
Sept o tes te por unt Se of 10, 4/0

--- PÁGINA 69 ---
Case
may have accumulated ue to events in the past history of the
5511,"%0 the presence of a shallow water table, or they may have
accumulated irom inadequate leaching of salté brought in witn
the irrigation ater. In any case, their concentration in’ the
Upper Foot zone (0.3 m) must be reduced to near the tolerance of
“he crop before any cropping is attempted. In sails with upper
Foot sone salinity less than about an £Co of 10-13 d8/m: an
2pplication of 10-20 on of water as a pre-plant irrigation
{Sprinklers or flood) coupled with a light irrigation following
planting is usually sufficient to start a tolorant crop such as
Barley or cotton. If the root sone salinity of the upper Foot
Zone is much greater than ECo Of 10-12 4S/m, the pre-plant
[rrigation may not be sufficient and a reclamation leaching is
advisable before planting even a tolerant crop such as
Sariey.
The depth of water trat must be applied to assure adequate
roclanation depends on the initial soil salinity and tho
leaching method used. The Righer the salinity, the greater the
dopth of water needed. Intormittent leaching will ‘reduce the
S011 salinity more e:ficiently (use less water) than will
Continuous leaching (ponding), but the time required to accom
Blish tne leaching will be greater. The Influencing factor is
The soil-water content during the reclamation leaching. BEfi-
cloncy is Increased Lf the percolating water moves more slowly
(unsaturated flow) and is occasionally allowed to drain to fiold
Capacity an in done in Intermitrent leaching. Under continuous
PONGing a higher proportion of tho leaching water moves through
Eho largor soil pores and bypasses smaller pores. Salts trapped
within these smaller pores, therefore, are removed at a slower
Fate por unit Of water applied. Sprinklers apply water at a
eta fuely "Slow Fate ana aro very officiont in leaching.
It is not possible to predict with accuracy the depth of water
that must be applied to accomplish the reclamation leaching, but
5 a guide for continuous ponding, 70-80 porcont of the soluble
2318s initially present will be removed with a doptn of applied
water oqual to the dopth Of soil 0 be reclaimed. For exampio, a
metre depen of percolated water can bo oxpected to Loach 70.80
porcont of the salts from a 1 metre dopth of soil. Figure 19
Shows that the porcentage removal is highly dependent on soil
type but, as a general guide, the 70-80 percont removal should
bo  reancnably representative for most irrigated soils. bor
Sprinklers or intermittent ponding, shout 80-90 percent of the
S21ta initially present in the soil will bo renoved with a doptn
5% applica water equal to the depth of soil to be reclaimed, but
ore time is required to accomplish the leaching. Figure 20
Shows that with intermittent ponding, soil type docs not play as
Taportant a role as with continuous ponding.
Localized irrigation has boon used successfully for reclamation
By placing one line of Gloasly spaced emitters on the flattened
0p of a raises planting bed Such as used in furrow irrigation.
Tho irrigation 1s continued until the desired caching has boon
accomplished. After planting, the crop is irrigated by localized
Trrigation. The resulting reciained zone in the soil may be
Spherical with the emitter at the top of the sphere (Figure 17).
The salts are leached to tho outermost fringe of the wottod ara
na into the unuetted areas hetusen the emitters, and by
Gvaporation an appreciable salinity develops at the soil
Slrface. Tai surface salinity sometimes gives trouble if a
Tighe Tain moves fhe accumulated salt back into tho root one
(s0¢ Section 2.4.5, localized irrigation).

--- PÁGINA 70 ---
Css -
If salinity is not too severe, extra irrigation water applied
uring tho growing of a salt-tolorant crop will accomplish
reclamation. Barley and Fic are common reclamation crops. The
Teclanation crop is planted as Soon as possible after the
Eopsoil salinity 1s reduced to within its tolerance. The crop is
believed to aid reclamation dus to 3 combination of affects
Including the physical action of roots to keep tho oil more
open ‘to 311ow additional ater to infiltrate, the addition of
Organic matter or the alternate drying and wetting of the soil
which promotes better soil structure.
Attempts to remove salts from tre soil surface by runoff ang
Gusriana flow are relatively ineffective. Surface flushing will
Femove a part Of the salts but quantities removed are usually
entirely inadequate to accomplish appreciable reclamation.
2.4.7 Changing or Blending Water Supplies
Changing water supplics is a simple but drastic solution to a
water quality problem. This is only possible if a better quality supply
12 Gvallable.” For example, a poor quality groundwater is usually
abandoned 1f a better quality supply becomes available, but this is not
ocossary Lf there Le Still a water cupply Shortage. Under those
Conditions, consideration should be given to blending the poorer with
Sho better ‘quality supply, thus increasing the total quantity of usable
“ater available. Blonding will not reduce the total Salt load but may
low more crop area to be plantea because of the increase in volume
Caused by dilution. The guidelines of Table 1 can be used to evaluate
the ‘usability of the blended supply which should also’ be evaluated
carefully to ensure that the total quantity of additional wator needed
Tor salinity control (the sdaitional lsashing requirement) Goes mot
cxcocd the net gain in amount of blended water available. The quality
Gf the blended water can be found by weing oguation (13):
Concentration [concentration proportion] [concentration proportion]
Gt the = fof ater (a) + GF water | + fof water () « of water wn
longed water [Eyes [ye
whore the concentration can he exprossed an either ECw or me/l but the
ame units Of CONCONtration must be bead ThrOUGhOUE the equation.
Blending water supplics for salinity control is not a common
practice. Most uiors alternate between the two supplies. Altornating
Use” can’ be beneficial, particularly in locations where winter rains of
winter irrigations aco used to mect most or all of the leaching
Fequirenent. Since the total salt load agplicd will romain tho same, it
may be aauisable to use the better quality supply in the carly part of
Fhe cropping scason and the poorer quality blend later when tho crop {s
Loss sensitive to Salinity. An example of blending is Given in Pxample
5%ana Table 10.

--- PÁGINA 71 ---
Ca
J ——
4 arnt 11 seeipatin avon crop wth coal ates (Be = 0.2 45/2) ad 15 pte scans
rtp sy print dere bi ea yhoo
Lani RSA LR, i, tis, rte prc, Te rid ar
ERR rE Te rgint Co avin peace (Bo + $6 483 Co he Te oe Sets
SENT
ore tame Belen
Water desand (ET) for maize BZ 850 mm/vesr
mimmams vid
f—
EE Tp ——
u - meg ®
canal water) * TEI) - 6.3 TOO
Rill water) TSE - aE "O40
The colctutd Tschin comicemns 1) to the com. ete Ls Lue tha the stan Lech
SE ET LI mL mg es oe
™ a @
Mcanal water) T= G13 "HE m/vear
Mi) water) "TAD * 1 year
Ihe ure of sel mtr sion wuld rose te 4 0 prc ncrsene do ter ne or Mcrae 0
Ih nl TR a
ETRhing eaction of 0.15 ia 117 35m The opie Fiend of acer cin then i Tout by
woditylug equation (13): ”
Cu (eanat water) ® * EE (vet water) TB) Mentom By (100g vuter) un
ares = ehccrtent couse o ch col vis in 81a
YT wt emit frre rabeg yb
LE Sas :
FI Ee
(blew wate) © ieied water tn d5/n
La ob he ch shoe eqtion 05
Gewese
a a war
The shoe sho. cht the ses prssny fstgntd with cal vue 5 0 = 90 marys
Ton ET Tm TL Tn ee LAA Sh Se SM
IL RL LS nn ee
rie

--- PÁGINA 72 ---
“se
Tbe 10 WATER QUALITY FROM BLENDED CAVAL AD WELL WATER *
Gis E, Fixiog mato
aed a
reams) asia) (Hel) vater/Cansl water)
o 3.6 7 -
20 2s 155 ait
25 px fre] sii
3 23 ie ait
50 is ia Tin
a hey pel Liz
7s ot os Li
5 px} 57 pie
0 ole 3 tis
95 0 200 Lil
100 0.23 ols B
© The data from che water ssslyets fa:
sow ca Ww Na Wo, a so sa
@S/m) el) (el) (set) (as/D)  (ae/D)  Gao/d)
Comal water 0.23 LAL 050 OMB L8 029 07 0
Geller a0 2: a0 so als sl a9 wo

--- PÁGINA 73 ---
RE.
3. INFILTRATION PROBLEMS

3.01 THE INFILTRATION PROSLEM

An inciltration problem occurs If the irrigation water does not
enter the soil rapidly enough durirs a normal irrigation cyole to
Feplenish the soil with water nosded by £18 crop bafors the next
irrigation. The Teducad Infiltration rate, Lf due to qualicy of applied
water, is generally a problon wizain the upper fow centimetres of soil
but occasionally may occur at greater Gepcha. The end result is a
decrease in water supply te the Crop, siailar to the reduction due to
salinity, but for a Gifforent reason. A water infiltration provles
reduces’ the quantity of watef pus Ifto the soil for later use by tne
Crop while salinity reduces the availability of the water in storage.

Infiltration refers to he ercry of water into the soil. The
Fate at which water enters in reforred to an the rate of infileration.
Permeability, the tern used in the previous edition of Irrigation and
Drainage Paper 29 (19761, moro correctly refers to the percolation of
infiltrated water throug tno soil. Since the water quality problem is
primarily one related to the ase with #aich water enters and moves
Through the upper few contiretres of Boil, we nave chosen the ters
“infiltration probler rather than the provicusly used ter 'permesbi
Lity problem’. An inflliratios rate as low as 3 ma/hour is considered
lou while a rate above 12 ma/hosr 1s relatively high. This can be
affected, nowevor, by many factors osaor than water Guality, including
physical characteristics of the soil, suca as Soil texture and type of
Clay “minerals, and chemical characteristics including exchangeable
Cations. The guidelines of Table 1 refer to infiltration problems as
they relate directly to the unfavourable charges in soil chemistry
caused by the quality of ireigation water applied. These provisas
concern both salinity and relacive sodium concent in the applies water.
Figure 21 shows in graphic form thas sotn salinity (EC) and the sodium
adSorption ratio (SAR) Of the appiiod Water affect the rae of infil.
Eration of water into surtace sail. Figure 21 can be used in place of
the numerical evaluations in Tasle 1 given for infiltration problems.

The infiltration rate gencrally increases with increasing
salinity and docreases with sithor Gecreasitg salinity or increasing
sodium Content relative to calcium and magnesiue = the sodium a0sorp
Elon ratio. Therefore, the two factors, salinity and SAR, must be
considered together for a proser evaluation of the ultimate effect on
ater infiltration rate.
3.0.1 Infiltration problen fvaluation

Low salinity water (lows than 0.5 ds/n ard especially below 0.2
d5/m) is corrosive and tends to loach surface soils free of soluble
ninorals and salts, oapecially calolum, reducing thoir strong stabi-
Tixing influence on sail agaregates ard soil structure. Without salts
and without calcium, the soi) Gisporses and the dispersed finer soil
part fclos £111 many of tno analler pore spaces, sealing the surface and
Greatly reducing the rate at whic water infiltrates the soil surface.
Soil crusting and crop srergence proslers ofien result, in addition to
reduction in the amourt of vater the: will enter the soil in a given
Amount Of time and which nay Ultimscely cause water stress betwaen
Irrigations.

Very low salinity water {less than LCw = 0.2 dS/m) almost
invariably results in water infiliration problems, regardless of the
relative sodium ratio (or SAR). Rainfall 1s a very low salinity water

--- PÁGINA 74 ---
60 -
30
Severe reduction
rate of ntivston
Skat 10 macerote
= reduction n rote
3 of tivation
€ 2
H
H
3s
H
H
10
No reduction in rote of infitotion
s
of TT Ee
o v 2 3 + s s
Salinity of applied waer (ECW) in 5/m
Fig. 2 Relative rate of water infiltration as affected
by salinity md sedive adsorption ratio
(Raspes trim Thosses 1677" and Outer and
Sheer 1970)
ang irrigates areas frsquently experience exceptionally low rates of
Tnei1craion of rainfall resulting in excessive runoff.

Excessive sodium in irrigation water also promotes soil dis-
persion and structural breakdown but only if sodium exceeds calcium by
mor than a ratio of about 311. Such 4 relatively high sodium content
©53:1) often results in a severe water infiltration problem due to soil
aiapersion and plugging and sealing of the surface pores, in much the
Same way as does the very low salinity water. This is due fo lack of
Sufficient calcium to countor the Giaperaing offocts of the sodium.
Excessive sodium may also make It extremely SLEficult to supply onough
water to meet the crop water demand. Other related problems such as
S0i1 crusting, poor scedling omorgonco, lack Of aeration, plant and
oot diseases; wood und mosquito Control problems caused by the low
Fate of infiltration may further complicato crop manajoment.

Th the past, sovoral procedures Nave been used to predict a
potontial infiltration problem. Tho Residual Sodium Carbonato (35C)
othod (saton 1930; Richards 1934) vas widoly used at ono time. The
ost commonly used recent method to evaluate the infiltration problem

--- PÁGINA 75 ---
Ca
potential das boon and probably sill fs the Sodium Adsorption satio
Po Rhema Ther oe etn 11) 08 SMR 2
SAR = Na om
Ve
wares m= sottim in mart
8 Cosma,
Go dtmieed,
fo rocent reports ana sournal articles, SA% is sors and mors
srocuuntly SESE SSEES 0%, douraeh Segicion, Sin le, sory nt ore
{ravine elem roverted 1h Sud and tos BR. Tie rarms pr menus,
The SAR Prusedies ateapaiess cae, IaCiiiiation peonless ses be 3h
fuser, of sell ln elation to calciun ind sagnasim, I: Sous po take
Sis, ascent shaness Ln, calcium fo the soll water that ats place
Peas, of ShaTaet geet, of selebim sepulsing tom grpcipics,
ion, o= dlssaliclon tuning of tollosias wn erigaeise, fotlus, ob
FRA lO aril Ce Hy HL EE
grchaonsbla soil sodium 4 SLi timer. mather soncwricates fron vite)
Sinuel of ie, 21 the op batwess, long Lrkipation Lassa, euiusd
Tieh fpRiod waters, of laaeneg, sey, ie, Seainien; susie lnciuences
Ee oo" EE Eien: Sieh, Ty
Es A A A I TR
Croninn shou So Sissbiution SE so minerals Lace to tot oveter
chapoes corar fue ip siseciution CF soll ninasaly ln the setiiter
hee, aim, Jon calchm Senter, ox fo precipitation tron, sollovater;
Es Tor tne by Boe Arm Me Shheotmd” ine nile
ay ee? oe Tada “or he presen SF svt
Fr Hs ER oR eR a
Shentjotielim, slong, wich sncugt carbonate, eschonats or sulpbacer to
ER RR Ee ere Tr Ke
ER A WE Er
pre Hr A A I ed HH
Selim ot] 300 Salclum eoncoatrasion, sietorsat io, eat Lo, the soplise
TINE Ton SAE tema, since Lt doo nok somouns tor ange changes,
ines wr accom Somat ton oaeciurs or sabe ot the
Le ai) seralaorad an somapesbis sualiation pecsocue
PT
Th dn, Prete arent 1, fe ssi of
Sih I A te TI Te rs
pT A Te Re AE
Simi sotes mart Boren ee 8
SIT, tote bs To wee hs, LE, ed, 1
a a ain
pay Serie ge oo
Ln ce reams ation he some ois Te prvabs of Bares
FR yl Reg ose eget
Tope fe sh a sin Ss procs ud tn wy
$4 Be os shoal, i pester pd vnc 1
er Shim he hn a Sy
din the smn fn clctn fn es soiomen do string
SmI a

--- PÁGINA 76 ---
—e-
Teble Ii CALCIDN CONCENTRATION (Co) EXPECTED To REAIN IN NEAR-SURFACE SOIL-UATER.
‘FOLLONING TRRIGATION'WITR WATER OF GIVEN Co, /Ca RAFID AND EC, + £13
Salinity of spplisd water (EC,)
tiv) “
i. 00 02 03 05 07 10 LS 20 30 40 60 80
10511320 13.61 13.92 14.40 14.79 15.26 15.91 16.4 17.28 17.97 19.07 19.9%)
Tif 83 Bs 77 9i0r S131 9.62 10.02 10.35 10.89 11.32 12.01 12.36)
Tis] 63 els ei6s 692 i 7.3 7.65 7.90 8.31 Bee 9.17 5.38
20] 3120 Sl Sis SL ST 606 61 6.2 6s 13 1.87 Tl]
25] 4.51 465 476 432 5.06 5.22 5.4 5.82 5.91 6.05 52 6.)
D0] 400 diz 421 436 4B 462 4.82 498 S26 Sa S77 60d
of ler 32 imo 3s alo 4 43 als alm als sla sls)
To) 3130 30 3m leo 30 3a 39 al 42 aes 477 ss
5] 3.05 B04 322 133 342 353 268 0 4.00 LIS dl kdl
So) 2a 2lsy 300 3110 315 328 343 334 5.72 87 ell 43)
T5| 217 220 229 21% 23 Lisl 162 2.70 LB 2.95 3.4 3.28
doo] 179 das ise 1s 201 2i0s 26 223 235 244 2.39 271
prio 125[ 136 133 Les Les L737 Les Le 2.0 2.0 2.03 2.3)
ato also 1 Al Ae 149 Ls) LSE Les 10 LT Liss 197 2.07
nentjee 173 123 a 0 ils ils 1a 1s 16 we des Los Las
SC Zo| 113 106 49 12 Le 131 13 140 Lids List Les L7o)
225 106 108 10 LI LU LZ L236 130 LY La Ls Ls)
sof oir 10 12 wpe 09 Ml Ub ia mole io a
oof olss olse ool ols 096 Lov Loe 107 13 Li das 130)
iso 0178 080 om 08S ow olsc Oise 0.97 Loz los Liz Lj)
4.00 0.71 0.03 0.75 0.78 0.80 0.82 0.86 0.38 0.93 0.9 103 LO
sol ol6e 0i68 0.69 072 O74 O.7¢ 0.75 0.s2 0.86 0.30 0.95 0.99)
Si00| oll oles oles 0ls7 063 071 074 Olde Ola 0.83 cls 0.93)
7.00f olds 030 ols2 013 0153 0151 0.58 0.61 0.64 0.67 0.11 0.74
10.00 0.39 0.40 0.1 0.42 0.43 0.45 0.47 0.4 0.51 0.53 0.36 0.58]
20l00) 0124 0123 0126 0126 0.27 026 0.29 030 0.32 0.3) 0.33 0.3]
30l00] lis 0119 0120 0.20 0l2l ola 022 0.23 0.20 0.23 0.27 0.28
"adapted trom Suares (1981).
© Assumes a sof] source of calcium from lise (GACD,) or silicates; mo precipitation of
magnesium, and partial pressure of CO, near the soil surface (Fey ) ts 0007
pete :
? Ga, HCO: Ca are reported in m/l; EC, 1s ta da.

--- PÁGINA 77 ---
Ce-

An alternative procedure, discussed in the following paragraphs,
taxes o mew look at the older SAR equation and adjusts tno carcium
Concentration OF the LIF igat Lon water to the expected equilibrium vale
£oTioning an irrigation, and includes the offects of carbon iowids
(C017. of bicarbonate (HCO)) and of salinity (ECw) upon tno carium
originally present in the applied Water but now a part of the soil.
Vater! The procedure assumes s soil Source SF calciut + from soil line
(8453) "0F incr ‘soi ‘minerals suen as silicates = and no precipitation
oF magnesium

The now tern for this is ad) RNa (adjusted Sodium Adsorption
Ratio) ana the Calculation procedure ls presented in tho following
Guemple ‘ae an improvement onthe older Sodium Adsorption Ratio (SAR)
TE"0an be Used to predict more Corracely potential infiltration
proslens due to relatively high sodium (or low calcium) in irrigation
Sacer supplies (Suares 1991; Rhoades 1982) and can be. substituted for
SAk in Tabla 1. ‘The equation for calculation of ad) Ra of the surace
001 Ta Very sinilar 5 "the older SAR equation and iar

[Py — an
a, a
)
Where: Na = sodium in the irrigation water reported in mo/d
Ca, = 8 mosities celciun value taken from Table 11, reported
fae Faprasents Gan Whe dpplied irrigation
water but modified Gus to salinity of the applied water
(Ec, "1h"Heo, Va Taio (co. wna Ca Ln abd) and tho
estinseed” partial pressure of CO; In the surtace few
Rillinotres of soil (Pep, = 0-0007 atmospheres)
#5 = magnesium in the irrigation water reported in med

To use the Cax table (Table 11), first decernine tne HCO, to Ca
ratio (ico, /Ca) and Bcu {rom the water analysis, using HCO, and Ca in
nei” and he water salinity (Bw) In GeciSitnens por metre: An appro”
Briate range of calculated MCO:/Ca ratios appears on the left mids of
Eho"tanlo ana the range of Eck’ across the top. Find tho ACOL/Ca ratio
that “Tala Meares: to the ‘Calculated HCO,/Ca value for the subjoct
water and ond across to the BCv column That most closely approxinates
The Bev for the water being evaluated, The Cex value shown Eepresents
Ehe me/1 SF Ca that Ls oxpocted a romain in solution In the moll water
52° diibedin ‘ana 13 V0 be used in equation (1). In Example ©. tho
Throg calculation procedures are Compared 1) SAK, 2) ad) SAK from
Foss 1576. ana 3) a3 wa.

Tho ag) RNa obtained is used in place of the SAK in Table 1 to
ovaluate’ botter tho potencial of the Vater to cause an infiltration
probles (fused ‘for ‘lreigation. Comparison of SAR and ad) Ria for
Sariaus types of water frat around tho world ars presented in Tablo 31.
Tho data in Table 31 shou that for most water, the SAK calculation 3
within “10 percent of the value abtalned sfcer adjustment of the
Zaictin Goncdntrat ton using equation (14) and Tablo 11+

Ie computer facilities are available, a simulation model can be
reliod upon to give vallo evaliations of these adjuseed Soiium adaoro-
Elon ratios (a0, RNa). The ad) kha outlined in the foregoing is adapted
irom "he procedure of Suace: (1381). A computer simulation model is
S125 avaliable (Knoades 1587). Both Give closely conparable results.

--- PÁGINA 78 ---
Ce
CAPE © ~ COMPALISON OF ETHODS TO CALCULATE THE SODIUM SAZARD OF A WATER
EC Sp —
as mown
Wo lua
Ioan
Tue + 1 wet
@ «02 ae
wo, = 5.66 end
= hn
wg, = 1s ass
Kaplamacion: 1. The Sodium Miorption Ratio GM) can be calculated (ron
on
A
saw LL se
VE
fares
2. The adjusted Sotton Adsorption Ratto (ty SAR) can be calcu
Tuted Fron be procedure ives in pecs ané vesccor A976):
ys = Db (Bd po] as
where phe = (ply = pk) +p (Ga + 3) + p (AI)
ay po + 20
pienso = a
pom 2s
me Tn
ad SAK = 5.00 114 G04 70) = 1
5. Te sejusced Sodium Acsocpelon acto (ad) RN) can be calcu
Toced tron cauacion (143 sad Table 10):
way wy, wt as
ana
wo, sem
wo, fea = 176
From Table 1, Ga + 143 ment
0
PPTL 7 EE
RS TAT FL
VE

--- PÁGINA 79 ---
Ces -
3.2 MANAGEMENT OF INFILTRATION PROBLEMS

Irrigating to £111 the soil-water reservoir for later withdrawal
by the crop is GifEicult when infiltration rates are low, but there is
Ueele eed to “take action to incroase infiltration ules tho crop
water demand or ‘the leaching requirerent cannot be met. Water ponding
for too long a time frequently olves rise to Secondary problems nich
are ac important in causing yield loss as is an actus water snortage
an often dotersine renedial measures co correct the infiltration
proslea. Some of the more Sroublosore secondary provlems are crusting
56 seed bad, excousive weed grows and suriace saturation which can
Cause root rot, diseases, Rucritional disordees, scor Aeration and poor
germination. In somo cases, water ponding for an excessive period of
ine has caused mosquito prooiees.

The management steps available to help maintain yields can be
oitnor chemical or physitsl. Caemicsl praceices imvolve changing the
S011 or Water chemistry thal influances 8011 infiltration rates. This
is normally accomplished by adiitg a chemical azensment, such as
gypsun, to aither the soil or tho water oc, in a few cases, by Slending
200 0r more sources of water to reduce the potenticl narard, Physical
rothods Include cultural practices that can ba expected to improve or
maintain int{ltration rates durirg periods of irrigation or rainfall.
Whether the physical or chemical approach is used. local conditions
Play an imporcant role. A reduced intiliration caused by water quality
Ta" dltcaront problem to a dow intiliraien rate caused by s clayey of
compacted surface soil. Infiliration sroblens due to water quality are
related to the impurities (Ca, Mg, Na, HCOy and ECW) present in the
Vater supply. Several possible options to salve s water quality-related
Untiltration problem re discussed ir ne following paragraphi. Each
must bo adapted to the local conditions and thoroughly field tested
Before any large-scale isplemeriation.

The following management scope are directed at evaluating and
overcoming infiltration proolers causes by tho chemical quality of the
Trrigation supply. Of equal Inportance, and also a water Guality
problem, 1s the reduction in infiltration that can take place due to 3
high sediment content in the supply water. 1: is beyond the scope of
this publication to include thie factor but it should be Considered.
Soe Soction 8.17 for an example of the impacts trom sediment.

3.2.1 Soil and Water Amendasnts

Cortain chemical amondeence added :o soil or water should
improve a low infiltration rate cassed by low salinity or by excessive
sodium (high SAR) in the Irrigation wator. Improvement can be expected
{Ete 'aadnasent increases the solicle calcium Content or causes a
significant increase in the salinity (£Cw) Of the applied water.
Andndnents are used to help lacrease the infiltration of counter the
effects of Sodiun, since, at prosent, there is no economical process
vailable for removing salts or soiius from Irrigation water which is
Tox enough in cost for genera’ agriculural use. An amendment, such as
Gypsum, When added to SoLL of water, will increase the calcium concen-
tration in the water, thus reducing the sodium to Calciu ratio and the
SAR. Adding Gypaum ts also baneficial bocauss Ii increases the salinity
of low salt waters, thus lbproving infiltration (Figure 21). Gypsum or
Other similar addizives will not casse any Inporiant inprovemont if
oor infiltration is due to adverse soil texture, Soil compaction,
Festrictive claypan or harapin layers, or 4 high water table.

Most soi) and water amendments in common use supply calcium
atrectly” (gypsum) oF" Indirectly  througn an acid or acia-toring

--- PÁGINA 80 ---
Ce -

substance (sulphuric acid or sulphur) which reacts with soil lime
(caco,) to release calcium to the Soil solution. Acid of acid-forming
anendhents are not effective If lime is absent from the soil. Cnomical
amendments are expensive and add to the cost of crop production.
They ‘are Justified only Lf their use results in a substantial inprove-
ment that can be ovalusted in relation fo cost. Field trials should be
Conducted to determine whether water Of soil amendments improve water
penetration or yield to an extent that Justifios the Cost. A Crop
Feceiving adequate water and producing neat maximum yield would not bo
expected to show a further yield increase from the use of amendments,
buf, in some’ instances, such amendments nay make irrigation management
Casier, though at an increased cost for the amendments, their handling
and application.

Water amendments are most effective if the water infiltration
problem is caused by & low salinity water (EC «0.3 dS/m) or by nigh
SAR in a water of lou to moderate salinity (ECw< 1.0 dsm). 1 water
Salinity is moderate to high (EC »1.0 G8/m) in addition to a high SAR,
5011 applied amendments such as low-grade gypsum of sulphur may be
Proforred and ofton are more effective.

LL cups
Gypsum can be either a soll or water amendment and is the most
commonly used and widely availble amendment for both. For
reclamation of sodic soils, Gypsun, in granular form, 1s appliod
broadcast at rates ranging from 5 to 40 t/ha and is worked into
the 5011. The 40 t/ha Tato is used as & one-tine application for
extremsly 50dic soils and if rapid reclamation is needed. Annual

Fates of application in excess of 10 t/ha are usually uneconomi-

Cal’ High ates over 10 &/na have normally been for immediate

5011 reclamation to allow roots to establish a proper rooting

depth.

A water Infiltration problem caused by low ECw oF high SAR

occurs primarily in th upper feu centimetres of soll; there.

Toro, tho low application rates of gypsum to correct tho surface

probien are more effective if loft on the Soil Surface or mixed

With soil to a shallow depth rather than incorporated dosper

Tato The soi) as for reclamation. However, surface applicd

gypsum may be rapialy leached and the soil will again show the

infiltration probien oven though tac Gypsus may still be present

"fou contimatres below the soil surface. Small but ropeated

Soll applications may be more effective for water-related

Surface’ infiltration problems, whereas single, large applica

Vions are more affect ive for wodic soil reclamation:

The application of gypsum to irrigation water to solve a water-

related infiltration problem usually requires less gypsus por

hectare than docs a S0il application. Gypsum is particularly

SEfective when added to water if the water salinity is iow (EC

Tess than 0.5 d5/m). ft in much less offective for hignor

salinity Uator because of tne difficulty in applying and getting

Sufficient calcium (to solution to counter the sodium present

SEfoctivoly. In practice it is unusual to get mors than 1 to 4

0/1 aissalven Ca in the usual fast-moving irrigation stream.

Those relatively small amounts of calcium in a low salinity

water may Incroase infiltracion by as much as 100-300 percent -

significant incroase. Howsvor, if water salinity is relatively
high, these small amounts of calcium are much loss effective and

Ghange the infiltration rate to a much lesser dogroc.

--- PÁGINA 81 ---
ere
The rate at which gypsum goss into solution will depend to a
great oxtant upon the Surface area or finenoss of tne grind.
Fincly-ground gypsum (loss than 0.25 ma in iameter) dissolves
muh more rapidly. Therefore, the finely-ground, ueusily purer
Grades of Gypsum are generally more satisfactory for water
Spplications; the biggest drawback Is the higher cost which
Sten provents small farmers from maintaining a continuous
Supply.” The coarse grinds and lower grades ars more satisfactory
EOF 401 application, but with care and ingenuity farmers have
Succosstully used low grades for water amendments. Even though
the finely-ground aypeum is much moro costly per unit than is
the coarse and lowor grade, for water application the case of
handling and speed of Jissolution often make It worth the added
Cost. Example 7 illustrates how Gypsum can bo used as a water
amendment to improve infiltration.
ERANPLE 7 ~ USE OF GTPSON AS AN AvERMINT
A ow salinity vater (Ew = 0.15 dS/a) 1s being used for irrigation
of citrus. Infiltration probleas have bes experienced fn the ove
Causing Seygen stress fn the citrus trees. The cause has been
attributed to water ponding on the soil suriace for extended periods
oF ‘time. Since the critical tims of [ruil set bo taking places it
Vas decided to ‘add gypava to the irrigation ster to incriase
infiltration and reduce aterlogging and oxygen seress. A 5 hectare
area neds an irrigation depeh of 100 mm. The gypeim svatlavle ia 70
Percent pure and an increase of 2 me/l of cxlchim is derived a the
water. How much gypeva should be uned?
trea: Be = 0.15 ds/a
area = Sha
Grown = 70 percent pure
Total water requizemsnt - 00 hectare m = 5000 2°
1 at1iequivalent per Litre of calcium = 86 bg of 1003 Erpaum
pec 100 a of water
Explanation: The amount of 100 percent gpaus needed to supply
ae/ Vo 5 tn 3000's" of watar cen be found by:
Ll me/l (Ca) = 86 kg (1002 grpeum) 1000 u'
2 Tor 1 mer) (Ca) 1a 5000 a"
1 me/ (Gh) <5 x 86 = 430 kg of 100% grave
3. or 2 mest (co) in 5000 w’
2 me/1 (Ga) 430 kg x 2 = 860 kg of 100%
pt
4. Stnce the gypeum ds only 701 pure, the smoust of
7pm needed 1a found by (860 x 100) 3 70 = 1230
KE'of 707 pure gypsum
A Coely ground gypaum tx best for vacer applications.
Therefore the total qualicy of gyspm needed co supply
we 1 of calcium in the 3000 3° of ueter a 1230 bg
of 102 pure’ pmevm

--- PÁGINA 82 ---
Ces -

In a fow instances, large pieces of rock gypsus have been places
in the irrigation ditch fo supply calcium to the irrigation
stream. Tho smount of calcium dissolving from the rock is low,
50 offoctivenoss depends upon the Stream velocity and volume.
The ‘amount being dissolved can ba determined by comparing the
Calelum concentration of upstream water with the concentration
Gownstroam, Ite proablo offoctivenses can then bo estimated by
the changes in ECw and SAR brought about by the additional
calciun and the potential change in infiltration as predicted by
The guidelines of Table 1. Rock gypsum placed in the irrigation
channel may increase maintenance costs as weed control and
vatercoursa maintenance become more difficult because the gypsum
Wil) have to be removed during mechanical cleaning or dredging.
The ultimate goal of either water or soil amendment with gypsum
18° an “ncroaso in yield of & substantial increase in ease Of
ifrigation management. An offective treatment should inprove the
water infiliration fate but the improvement must be weighod
3gainst the costs to determine whether the treatment is Worth-
while

Gypsum occurs naturally in many soils in arid climates and some
5011s will contain gypsus in sufficient quantity to affect
Interprotations of both soil salinity (ECe) and sedicity
(exchangeable sodium), and require a corroction both to the
measured soil salinity (Ee) and to the reported SAR wnich is
Ecoquently used to estimate the oil exchangeable sodium porcent
(5b) (see Figure 1). Tho ECe procedure involves a saturated
#011 paste and, if gypsus is present, tho ECe will include
Salinity attributable to the dissolution of gypsum - about 2
35/m. Since gypsum is generally beneficial to most soils and
Getrimental to very few crops (=itrus), the additional soil
Salinity due to Gypsum may be subtracted from the measursd ECe
5 Give a more corvect assessment of tne soil salinity hazard:
For ‘example, a gypsiferous soil has a measured FCe of 6 d5/m, 3
5011 salinity Which is oxpected to reduce yields of many salt
Sensitive crops. Since 2 ds/a of tho roported ECo can be
attributed to the gyphus, the ECo safely can be discounted by 2
S/n ang the corrected ECe now becomes ECo = 4 45/m, an amount
much 108s hazardous to sensitive crops.

Naturally occurring soil gypsum also has a bearing on inter-
pretation of many laboratory analyses of Soils. Tn Soll analy—
215, "the laboratory sometises reports the SAR OF the saturation
extract (ESP), as shown in Figure 1. This (s not a correct
Svaluacion if Gypsum 15 present because all the sodium salts are
Completely soluble whereas the gypsum Ls only slightly soluble
and can contribute 3 maximum of about 20 to 30 me/l calcium to
Tho ‘saturation oxtract. At an excaple of the problem in inter-
pratation, a strongly Gypsiierous Soil, but with high salinity,
Ray have an ECe Of 12 d8/m, of which 2 US/m can Do attributed to
The Gypsum. T€ all tho other salts are sodium, thre should be,
inthe maturation extract, Na = 100 me/l and Ca not more than 30
me/1, yielding a caloulatsd SAR of 26. Such a 8oil, having ice =
17 ds/m and SAR of the saturation oxtract equal to 26, is
noemally classified as a saline-alkali soil which requires
Gxtensive reclamation by a massive gypsum application plus
Sxtonaive leaching before cropping. This ie an incorroct
interpretation. The soil ts meacrately saline (ce = 12 as/m)
but It in not sodic because the gypius provides a ateady supply
of calcium. Even without leaching, it should be capable of
Growing oxcellont barloy (tolerance of barley = 10 ds/m at 30
Percent yield potcntial) and with 50 percent reduction in

--- PÁGINA 83 ---
ar.

salinity (to Co = 7 d3/n including 2 dS/m per cn attributed to
the naturally occurring gypaun in tho soil), it could be planted
to field crops suca 1s barley, cotton, sugarbests, grain
sorghum, wheat and sovseans wiihou: 6 loss in yield caused by
salinity. The soil (s not scdic and oos not requiré sail
amendments, but it doss need leaching to wider the range of crop
adaptability. Such oils are acetines called "seit reclaiminges
Feaning that Loaching alone wil: Feclair tnem and soil amend
Fonts are not Aedes.
A good rule of thusb to provent auch all-too-fraguent inter
Pretive errors has boon adepted Gy the University of California
Cooperative Extonslon Laarazoriea ard is as follows: if the SAR
Of ‘the saturation extract exceeds SAR = 10, confirmation of the
ingicated soiiun problem is requirad by the laboratory. Con-
Eirnat on {s by the Schoonover Gypsum RoGuireeent test given as
mothod 224 in the USDA Fandboos 60 (Richarsa 1954) or by the
Exchangeable Cation Meta: given as aotrods 18 and 20s in the
sane nandoook. Trse metnods correct for tne saluble cations
attributable to salinity ano estimate SAR and E85 more corract-
ly. Where appropriate, the Schoonceer method is simple and
Faiiabla, but It in rot appropriate Lf appreciable exchangeapie
potassiun is present.
Gypsun is somstines prosent in irrigation wazer. If the soluble
Saits in the irrigation water include approcisbie calcium, many
800ic soils can bo rolalned cver a period of one to five or
more years simply by plartirg tolerant crops and adopting
Cultural practices :o 'praate deop percolation of applied
Trrigation water. To reclain a severely sosic soil in ont yoar
may require up to 40 /ha Of gypsum and extensive Lsaching to
Ferove ‘soiiua (salts) released during reclamation. To reclaim
the samo soil relying upon calcium prasent in the irrigation
water (Ca = 2-3 pe/l or nore) plus cultural practices (dishing,
ploughing, deep cultivation) ani planting sodiua-tolerant crops
(pasture grasses ard forage or similar), may take several years.
Success or failure will depend o 4 great extent upon an
adequate rate of Inflltra:ion and ho depth of water that enters
the’ soil, the caleiur content of the irrigation water and the
severity ‘of ‘the sodic prosiow. Desh cultivation will greatly
Snhance infiltration ant speed reclamation whether amendments
are used or not.

6. Acio-forning amendments
Acids or acid-forning senizents also supply calcius to soils,
but lime (Cac0,) mus: Se present in the soil for them to be
offective. Sulphur ‘and sulphuric acid aro both used extensively,
but’ relatively fou otrers Fave Seen used to any great extent.
Table 12 givis comparative data for several common calcium
supplying materials used for reclamation of sodic soils but
Gypsum remains the most widely used because Lt is usually
Feaaily availasie and cosss Jess for tne me/l of calciur
supplied. Several for:ilizors ars aci: residual and contribute
Calcium theauh thelr acidic reacs ion.
Sulphur furnishes calcius <2 line is present in the soil and is
an excellent amangment for roclamatior of sedic soils. It is not
4 satisfactory amendment for water applicasion and is not very
Stfective to improve a water infiliration proble. ft is slow to
Foact. The sulphur must first be actos upon by soil bactoria and
bo oxidized to fore sulphurous ard sulphuric acid whieh then

--- PÁGINA 84 ---
C0
reacts with line to release calcium. The oxidation process is
Father low and requires a vam, well-aerated moist Soil for
Sout 30 days or longer. 1 sufficient time is availasle, it has
Proves to be a good amendment for raclamation Of sodic-calcare
Bua olTs," su Ts Tot sxpectec to provide a satisfactory
Soiucion for a water ‘intiitration problem because the oxidation
Brocess is too Slow and calcium Folcased near tho surtace in
£50 acnda Surin trv igat ions.
Sulphuric acid is a strong, corrosive acid, used for direct
Sopfication to the soil surface ac full strength or sdded to
TEigatlon ater where 1¢ reduces the wator Concentration of
bicarbonate and contributes acidity to the soil surface to
Foloase Calcium. IL 1s very effective for reclaining soaic soils
“ha’"to Saprove water infiltration of lisey soils because the
Sllpnuri "eid dons not have to go through an oxidation process.
14 Prades ‘rapidly with Soil line. Soil applications are made
betore Cropping and are Usually follows By extensive leaching
25" Femove ‘any excessive soluble salts present or formed because
5% the Sulphuric acid reaction with 1ime 3nd tho soil: Appiice
Clone” (n Mater must bo carefully controlled and monitored to
Gnsure that they ars sate for tho conditions of use - safe for
Blpetines. sprinklers, irrigation water distribution systems,
Sr borsonnel. The ultimate Sfisct on infiltration is about the
San "4x hat for & chemically equivalent amount of gypsum (Table
1277 Slipnursc scla is highly corrosive and Gangerous to handle:
It Ray ‘damage concrete pipelines. steel Culverts. checkgates and
aluminium pipes. It SAGuld only be applied by experienced
Goerators:
Tle 12 VATE AN) SOIL AGRNMENTS AND THETR RELATIVE EFFECTIVENESS
Sor Caer
pocniment SE 100 percent gypeva
Grpem (caso, © 3.0) + 1.00
Suton 55 ois
Sulfuric cid 050, + pet
Tortie sighace (rer (30,), + 58,0) + fe)
Tine sulphur (9 percent Ga 3 2¢ peseant 5) + ors
Galan Soria Cich: © a1s0) ¥ alee
Calcium aierace (Galion), © 10.0) + 5
CIEL Sarboasee (Gado) + ols
© Suitable for use as a uater or soil smndacnc
+4 Suicable miy for soil sptcation
depict from Firemsn snd anion (1965).
© The above are based on 100 percent pure aaterdala: If sot 100 percent,
Sake "Che oiiovias carculavion to Fine fons (1) Chat are equivalent 0 5
feotgasin
fp
2 ercent purity an
Exasple: TE gypsum ia 50 percent pure, X = 2.00 tous. This says chat
5700 oa of 50" Fereest pace Typoun fs squtvalest vo 1 ton of 100 percent
bite Eypmen.
* ror acs sotls oaly.
Other amndnents are sometines used in local arses but thelr use
aspends’ restly on the Gost of supply and application. ‘As shown in
eBTe Ls evara) Common fertilizers can also set ae airect or Indirect

--- PÁGINA 85 ---
bier a is
ee
F—
Mtrate soltion  W,N0,.CO0M,) 5 a El
mr
“Equivalent per 190 ke of each satecial.

--- PÁGINA 86 ---
Zn.
sources of calcium. Most acid fortilizers must go through an oxidation
process similar to that for sulphur, and a source of calcium must be
Drosent in the soil (Caco). Therefore, they ars of Limited value for a
Water infiltration problem, but may be useful to prevent or delay
Formation of & sodic Soil that may Gradually develop as a result of
using a slightly marginal sodic water.
3.2.2 Blending water Supplies

As shown in Table 1, an SAR Of 12 or greater may appreciably
reduce the ‘rate of infiltration Of water with a salinity less than EC
OF 3 s/n, and an SAR as low as © may approciably reduce the infiltra-
Thon Tate of ‘water with a salinity less than ECw Of 1.2 4S/m. The
§nfiliration rate can be increased either by increasing che water
salinity oF feducing the SAR.

Dilution reduces the SAR. This is due to tho nature of the SAR
equation (1). The numerator (Na) is reduced in proportion to the
{lution and at a groator rate than is the denominator (Ca + Mg)
because the denominator is reduced by the square foot Of the dilution.
Exanplo 8 shows how the SAR OF a blended water is reduced when &
Eubowel) water in Takistan 1a blended into the normal canal supplies.
Without blending the tubewell water would have very limited use, but as
2'remult of blonding the otal amount of usable water has increased by
the amount supplied by the tubewell.

CNL 8 - BLENDING RRIGATION WATER TO REDUCE TUE SAR OF A FOOL

QoaLITY sore

A canal uster supply a available bu vill sot seer the total crop

Vater demand. The canal supply could be Slandd wich a poorer quality

Veit ater to che extant of 753 canal vater and 25% well water. hat (n

The ska of the Blended water?

Givea: The water analysis ts:

Be co MeN wo, se

(aa) (ne) (ae) (wed) Cael)
Canal water 0.33 141 0.5 0.48 18 0.5
wilt” Seo 2m So a2 4s amo

Explasation: The resulting blend quality can be found by using

csaeion (10)7
(oe/1 of (3) x proportion of (a) used) +
(8/1 oF (3) x froportion of (b) wed) =
ceautting blend in sell

Ga = (1410.79) + (2.5230.25) = 1.69 me/1 (Blend)

Ni - (0150x0.7) + (4:0000.25) = 1.41 me/1 (blend)

No 2 (0128x0.75) + (33,020.25) = 8.36 m/l (blend)
Boy © (1820.75) + (4:5 20.29) = 2.48 nef) (blend)
EG, - (0.230.753) + (316 10.25) + 1.07 45/a (blend)

sak = EE
1E 10
7

--- PÁGINA 87 ---
Sn

Many high SAR waters are usually abandoned if an alternate
better quality source is made available. If the better supply is
adequate for the area to be irrigated, there is nothing to be gained
from blending the two suppliss. However, if the batter quality supply
is not adequate for the lanc available ‘for planting, blending a jess
desirable vater with a better supply may allow more land to be planted,
resulting in greator overall crop production and more income fof the
Earner.

Blending water supplies is not a common practice even when two
Supplies are vallable, ono of wnich is much Poorer in quality:
Normally a better quality surtace supply 1s used whencver available and
the poorer Quality groundwater is used whenever the surface supply is
insufficient. Alternating supplies dows not, however, offset an
infiltration problem caused by the high SAR of a poorer quality supply.
In fact, the problem can be groatly aggravated if low salinity-iow SAR
slpplicd are uscd after a highly saline-high SAR water. The high SAR
water causes a corrospondingly high ESP in tho surface soil and, if low
Salinity water ‘is then used, it can soon cause an appreciably reduced
infiltration rate. An oven more severe problem occurs when rain falls
after using Saline of high SAR irrigation water. A Light application
¢ surface applied gypeus (1 to 2 t/ha) prior fo irrigation with tne
Dotfor quality supply of before the rainy season is sometimes used in
an attempt to overcome this provlom. Blending would also provent many
SE the Secondary problems Caused by short-term usage of high SAK
Water, such 4s surface crusting and sealing. Whercver possible high SAR
water should be diluted to reduce infiltration problems, but. in thoso
instances where its use Ls alternated, the use of supplemental amend
nents should bo considered.

3.2.3 cultivation and Deep Tillage

S011 and water amendments and blending change the chemical
nature Of the water while physical methods keep the soil pan by
mechanical moana. The most common physical method in either cultivation
OF Goep tillage. Both are sffectiva but normally short-lived and are
Shs only temporary solutions to 4 water in€iltration problon.

Cultivation is usually dome for weed control or soil aeration
rather than to improve uater penctration. Whore infiltration problems
are severe, cultivation or tillage are helpful ss thoy rougnon tne
SUrface and slow the low of water, increasing the time during which
iniltration can take place. A rough, cloady furrow or fiela improves
ineiltration Guring the first one or two (rrigations, After hich
another cultivation may be nacced. Cultivation equipment can often bo
modified to leave a rougher surface. Cultivation breaks up the crust in
the upper fou Gentimetres Of soil to improve infiltration. A common
practice in areas where o water infiltration problem hat been caused by
Fou salinity ‘water is to cultivate before Gach irrigation of sefors
overy second irrigation. This rougnens the soil and opens cracks and
air Spaces that greatly increase the Surface arca cxposed for infiltra-
tion.

beeper tillage (chiselling, subsoiling) can be oxpected to
improve deep wator penetration for only one oF two irrigations since
he SOL surface soon reverts to Its ofiginal condition but, although
improvement is not permanent, this practice may temporarily allow
sufficient water to Cater to make an appreciable difference in stored
water and in the crop yield. ‘Deop tillage physically tears, shatters
and rips tho soll, and is dot prior to planting or during periods of
Gormancy whon roof pruning or root disturbances of permanent crops ars
Lows aiaruptive. Doop tillage should only bo porformed whon soils are

--- PÁGINA 88 ---
- 7
dry enough to shatter and crack. If done wet, increased compaction,
aeration and permeability problems can be expected.
3.2.4 Organic Residues

Crop residues or other organic matter left in the field will
improve water penetration and is becoming a more widoly accepted
practice. It is ono of the easiest methods to improve water infiltra-
Tion, especially’ for small farmers who do not Rave the resources to
implement more costly corrective measures. Unfortunately, in many
instances, ‘the small farmers se Crop residues for other purposes and
little, if any, is returned to the soil.

Crop residues left on the soil or worked into a rough cloddy
8011 surface will improve water penetration on sodic soils and will
also improve water panctration into soils being irrigated by high SAR
or low salinity water. Both crop residue loft on the soil surface as
well 2s the root ‘system of the crop help in keeping the soil open. The
benefits decline with time until replenished at the noxt cropping

The more lbrous ana less easily decomposed crop residucs, as
from barley, rice, wheat, maize and sorghum, nave improves water
penetration, whereas residues from legumes and vegetable crops gener
211 have not. The best residues are those which Go not decompose or
broak down rapidly. These Koop the soi: porous by maintaining open
Channels and voiod which improve water penetration: To be SELectivas
Felatively large quantities of rosiducs are noodeds for instance.
manure has been used at rates of 40 to 400 metric tons per hectare to
improve water infiltration. An organic application in the range of 10-
30" percent by 3011 volume in the upper 15 cm of soil may be needed to
be otfective.

Where water quality is affecting water infiltration, anc
organics are boing tried to improve infiltration, it is important to
(ndorporats the residues into the surface few centimetres of Soil.
Dooper incorporation is beneficial for moil structure and desper
percolation of applied water, but for infiltration problems Causca by
water quality, it is the surface soil that usually controls the depth
OF Water entering the soil in a given period of time.

Rice hulls, sawdust, shredded back, and many othor waste
products have been used in largo volumes but with varying dogrecs of
Success. Tents with rice hulls in India increased the yield of rice in
the first cropping season but yields reverted to thelr original level
when the troatmont was discontinued. Pros a long-torm standpoint, the
Eeturn Gf organic matter to the Soil helrs maintain soil structure and
returns necdod nutrionts, but using a high rate of organic matter also
causes problems. These incluce nutritional upsets, salinity effects
Caused By salty manure, nitrogen shortages or excesses owing to the use
Gf Cortain types Of matorials (manures vo sawdust) and toxicities
(chloride and poassium toxicities from rico hulls).

5.2.5 lerigation Management

Physical and chemical methods In combination have proved to be
the most effective approaches fo solving water infiltration problems.
Eousver, hess require sxtensive and continuing annual investesnt in
Both Cine ang money to be effective. Many users Lry ta Complement these
ethos with irrigation practices to make the wator Infiltration prob
Tom aside to Solve or manage. Several practices are discusecd hore.

--- PÁGINA 89 ---
Caso

i. Irrigating more frequently is a simple and offective approach

especially for Soils raving an initially high infiltration rate
but for which the rate drops rather quickly due to low salinity
oF high SAR. Tne objective is to supply the crop with adequate
Gator’ at all times without secondary problems develaping
(waterlogging, poor aezation).
Irrigating more frequently maintains a higher average soil water
Contant and reduces the possibility of a water stress that might
Fosult Lf Irrigations were spaced further apart. If the crop. is
Rot stressed for water botwsen Irrigations, increasing the
irrigation frequency docs litle good.

4. Pro-plant irrigation can be relied upon to £111 the rooting
Gopth to field Capacity at a time when there is litcle chance of
Causing crop damage. In some Giféicult soils a pre-piant
irrigation is the only opportunity to wet the deeper part of the
crop Toot zone. Tt is 4180 an Sffact ive method for werting soils
ith a very slow latiliration race.

iif. Extending the duration of an irrigation applies more water and
£3 “Bonot {etal provided that sail aeration; walerlogings runott
ana surface drainage problems do not result. Many Lreigators try
Eo cxtend the Lrrigation by reducing the volume of flow to 3
£1013 and holding tho water on the field for a greater period of
time. Carctul mansgemont and monitoring ie needed to maintain
water uso efficiency and to keep runoff to a minimum. Excessive
Funoft is frequently collected in & pond at the low side of the
irrigated field and is pumped back up s10pe through a pipeline
€o be re-circulated into the irrigation stroas. Those ro-
Circulation (return-Tlow) systems are becoming common in surface
irrigated areas and can aid greatly in SEEiciontly irrigating a
Soil with a low infiltration rate. In a few instances tnis
Syston is installed following a comprehensive land levelling or
Grading programme to improve water use Sfficiency. By collecting
Gnd ro-circulating water, both the total water use efficiency
3nd depth of penetration Gan ta more easily controlled.

iv. Changing irrigation systems may be necessary on more difficult
Rolls. for instance; changing from a surface irrigation system
£5 one which appliocs water more precisely (sprinklers for sandy
soils and localized (drip) irrigation for heavier clayey soils)
may allow the user to approach tho soil intako rate more
Clasly. These changes require large capital expenditures and
additional power to oporato, but the system can be designed to
Spply water at che rae desired: If runoff occurs with primi.
Tors or localized (aris) irrigation, the application rate is too
nigh. Changing the rats of application acer installation may bo
iteicult ane complete rodosigning of tho System may be nosded.
In somo cases an exiating sprinkler or localized irrigation
=ysten can be intermittently operated to maton the Inflltration
Fite more Closely, ALooping irrigation at the tine runotl begins
nd yo-ircigating every fow hours until tho dosiced dopth of
applied water is reached. This technique does allow the use of
SR existing sprindler or localized irfigation Syscem, but will
Dronably use a little more water, thus increasing production
Cove, and it may also need more investment in oquipment to
Gecuct ide tine.

Sprinklers apply water in droplets, some quite large. On impact,
These large Groplits can disperse the Soil surface particles and
aggravate or cause an infiltration problem sccompaniod by oxcos—
STCTTURorT. Wppiication rates normally vary from 3 a to 6 mm

--- PÁGINA 90 ---
C6 -

per hour over the irrigated ares. Sprinklers are wall adapted to
Zany and loamy soils but less so to heavy or clayey type soils.
Localizea arip or trickle irrigation systems are botter adapted
£0 loany or clayey soils and apply water through many small
Gutlets (emitters) at a rate OF 3 to 4 itros por hour. At these
Tou rates they do not aisperse tha soil particles as do sprin-
Klors. Thoy oro loss well adapted to sandy soils.

--- PÁGINA 91 ---
ame
4. Toxicrrt reosiems
4.1 SPECIFIC TONS AND THEIR EFFECTS

A toxicity problem is different from a salinity problem in that
it occurs within tho plant (self and is not caused by a water shore-
age. Toxicity normally results when Cortain ons are taken up with the
S0ii-water and accumulate in the leaves during water transpiration to
an extent that results in damage to the plant. The degres of damage
depends upon time, concentration, crop sensitivity and crop water uses
and if Gamage is Severs enough, crop yield is reduced. The ubual toxic
fons in irrigation water are Shloride, sodium and boron. Damage can be
caused by each, individually of in combination.

Not all crops are oquilly sensitive to these toxic fons. Most
annual crops are not sensitive at the concentrations shown in Table 1
but the majority Of tree crops and woody perennial-type plants are.
Toxicity synptoms, however, can appear on almost any crop Lf concentra
tions are high snough. Toxicity often accompanics of complicates a
salinity or infiltration problem although it may appear oven when
Salinity is lou.

The toxic ions sodium and chloride can also be absorbed dirsctly
into the plant through the leaves moistened during sprinkler irriga
tion. This occurs typically during periods of high temperature and low
humidity. Tho loaf absorption speeds the rate Of accumslation Of a
Hoxic Lon and may be 8 primary source of the fomicity.

Many trace elements, in addition to sodiun, chloride and boron,
are toxic to plants at very low concentrations. Fortunately most
Irrigation supplies contain very low concontrations of these trace
clemdnts and are generally not a probles. Suggested maximum concentra.
Tions for these unususl trace elements are given in Gection 5.5. Those
Concentrations are bated upor limits ssraniished to protect the soil
Fosource’ from contamination if continuously irrigated with water which
Contains them.

40.0 chloride

The most common toxicity is from chloride in the irrigation
water. Chloride is not adsorbed of held hack by soils, therelore i¢
moves readily with tho soil-water, is taken up by the crop, moves in
the transpiration stream, and accumulates In tho loaves. If th
chloride concentration in the leaves exceeds the tolerance of the crop,
injury symptoms Govolop such ai leaf burn or drying of loaf tissue.
Normally, Slant injury occurs first at th leaf tis (unich is comon
for chloride toxicity), and progresecs from the tip back along the
edges as scverity increases. Excessive necrosis (dead tissue) is often
accompanied by sarly leaf drop or defoliation. With sensitive crops,
Chose symptoms occur when leaves accumulate trom 0.3 fo 1.0 porcont
Chloris on 3 dry welgnt bails, but sensitivity varies among those
Crops. Many tro ‘ropa; for oxamplo, Login to show Lnjury above 0.3
percent chloride (dry weight).

Chemical analysis of plant tissue is commonly used to confirm a
chlorige toxicity. Tho part of the plant gonerally used for analysis
Varios with tho’ crop, depending Upon Which of the available inter
protative valuos is being followed. Teaf blages are most often used,
BUY the petioles of somo crops (arapas) are sometimes uscd rathor than
Loaves. For Irrigated arcas, the chloride uptake depends not only on
She water quality but alse on the soil chloride, controlled by’ the

--- PÁGINA 92 ---
Ss
Tle ld CHOMDE TOLEWNCE OF SOM FRUIT COP COLTIVARS AND R0OTSTOCKS |
TT TTT Gememmme a
vithout Laat Injury *
crop Restatock or Gulttuae toot Tom (ety Herigation
Omer (|
es aan
Reatatocks
svocato vest tation 7s 5.0
[Heseca onarioana) Gontemslan © oo
fries so 53
Cirru Soaks Mandacin 25.0 16.6
(cicma sp.) Gravesruie
Cleopatra aandarin
Rangpur dine
sampaon cangelo 15.0 10.0
Rocgh Temon
Sout orunge
ES
Catrumelo 4475 10.0 or
TelfoTiace orasse
Coban haddock
Calimonita
Seeat ocange
Savage cirrange
Ruak ice ange
Teayer citringe
Grape sa1e creek, 1613-3 40.0 m0
hie arp bon Rida x} x3
Stone Fruits Mariana 2.0 1.0
(ors sp.) Lowell. shall fix} i
Temnen 75 So
cutivars
sarrten Boyseerty 10.0 or
Thies mp. Olaiiie biscxberey 100 or
Tadtan' sumer Rasphersy Eg Es
Grape Thoapaon sesdiens 0.0 13.3
Fie qpo rerio 200 53
py 100 5
Jie 105 or
seraberey Lassen 7s 5.0
(rrecoria opp.) shasta px] bX]

+ Mapted trom Nass (1984).

* For sous crops, the concentration given say exceed the overall salinity tolerance of
Thue Cron and cause some reduceion in yield tn addicion to that caused by chlorioe
Pvc

? Values given ace for the maximm concentration in the frrigation water. The values
sare Gerived from saturation extract fata (R,) Setuming 4 150 percent desching
EET IR “

© The sanimm_permisaible values apply only to suciace Sreigaced crops. Spriakler
nation sty avec excessive Leaf burn 4% vituss ar below. chase. (des. section
pein

--- PÁGINA 93 ---
Ze -

amount of leaching that has taken place and the ability of the crop to
exclude chloride. Crop tolerances to chloride are not nearly so well
documented as crop tolerances to salinity. Table 14 gives the known
tolerances of several crops to chloride in the saturation sxtract or in
the  appiled water. These values may need Lo be. changed where local
experience indicates that different levels cause damage. For example,
tobacco, although tolerant to chloride, acquires progressively more
undesirable burning characteristics of the lsat ab well as reduced
storage lite if chloride lovals in irrigation water increase above a
fou milliequivalents per litre. This greatly affects its market
value,

A chloride toxicity car occur by direct loaf absorption through
Loaves wot uring overhead sprinkler \rrigation. This occurs most
frequently with the rotating type sprinkler heads and is discussed in
Section 4.3.

4.1.2 soaiun

Sodium toxicity is not as casily diagnosed as chloride toxicity,
but clear cases of the former have boon recorded as a result of
relatively high sodiun concertrations in the water (high Na or SAR).
Typical toxicity Symptoms are leaf burn, scorch and dead tissue along
the Outside cages OF leaves in contrast to symptoms of ehlorias
conicity which Rommally occur initially at the extreme leaf tip. An
axtanded period of tine (many days Of wooks) is normally required
before accumulation reaches toxic conconcrations. Sympeoms appear first
on the olaer leaves, starting at tho outer edges and, as the severity
Increases, move progressively inuard between the veins toward the reat
contro. Sensitive crops include deciduous fruits, nuts, citrus,
avocados and beans, but thoro are many othors. For tree Crops, sodius
inthe leaf tissue in excods of 0.25 £5 0.50 percent (dry weignt basis)
15 often associated with sodiim toxicity.

Loat tissue analysis ls commonly used to confira or monitor
sodium toxicity but a combination Of Soil, water and plant issu
analyses groatly increases the probability of a correct diagnosis. When
Using only leaf blade analysis to diagnose sodium toxicity, it is
advisable to include analyses of loaf bisdes from damaged trees as well
5 ncarby undamaged ones for comparative purposes.

Sodium toxicity is often modificd or reduced if sufficient
calcium 15 available in the $ail. Whether an indicated sodium oxicicy
is a ‘sinplo ono or is more complicated involving a possible calcium
doficioncy or other interaction is presently being researched. Pre-
liminary resulta indicato that for at least a fow annusl crops, calcium
deficiency rathor than sodium toxicity may be occurring. If confirmed,
Chose crops should respond to calcium fertilisation using material Auch
25 gypsum or calcium nitrate. for a Glscussion of possible calcium
Goticioncy, ses Section 5.6 on Nutrition and Water Quality.

Many crops do show sodium toxicity. The toxicity guidelines of
Table use SAR as the indicator Of the potential for a Sodium toxicity
Drobie nich ia expected to dovelop following surface irrigation with
4 particular quality of water. table 15 gives the relative sodium
Zolerance of soveral raprisertative crops. The dats in the table are
Given mat in Seems of GAR but Of noi exchangeable sodiua (ESP).
Estimates of soil ESP that arc expected to result from long-term
(sovoral years) uso of water of given SAR can bo made using the
nomogran in Figure 1. (Refer to Section 3.2.1 Lor a @iscussion of the
Inpact of erroneous interpretations of SAR-ESP relationships in
presence of gypun.)

--- PÁGINA 94 ---
rv.
ble 1s RELATIVE TOLERAMGE OF SELECTED CROPS To EXCHANGEABLE SODIUN-
Sensitive’ semt-colecant® Tolecane?
Avocado carrot nats
Trorsea ameriomma) (Daucus carota) Thadiosgo sativa)
Dectduous Fruits Clover, Ladino Barley
Nato (rrigottin repena) Thordeen utgane)
Beat, green Daliogcass Beet, garden
Iohgeeotus vuigarie)  (Faspatin ditataties) Tseca wigarie)
Cotton (at gerainstions Fescue. call Beet, sugar
Tioeryptin hiractor) | (Featuoa arundinacea) neta igarie)
Hatee Lettuce Bermuda grass
Tea maye) (aston sativa) TCymodon dastyton)
peas Bagare cotton
er] (remnicetion typhoidenl Toossyriun hiveusun)
Geapeteut Sugarcane Pararans
citi pasadiet) (Sancrarun officinern) (orachiaria mitioa)
orange Berens Rhodes grass
Toteme sinaraia) (reigotium alezmdrinun) (Chloris gana)
Peach eng Wheatirans, crested
Tera persica) e1é3otue parviflora Ugropyron crioatin)
Tangerine Raya Wneatgrann, fairy
Toitma retioutata) | (avassion uncea) Uigropimon cristae)
ns out Wheatgrass, tall
(ehaseotus aura) (hoe aati) Uigropyron elongation
Pe. outer Kacaal grass
(Phaseolus mongo) latte oopa) Toiptacma fusca)
Lene] py
(zane cutinarie) Raph eativus)
Gromdnut (peanut) Rice
con Arachis pops) = (onysa sativa)
(Cicer arietinem (secale oereatel
Govpens Byegrasa, Italian
Tiga sinensia) (Lathe muti ftorn)
sorb
(orgie vulgare)
Spinach
(Spinasta oleracea)
Toast
(Lycopersicon eaten)
voce
lriota sativa)
Wheat
Urritioum outgere)
Adupeed from data of FAO-Unesco (1973); Pearson (1960); and Abrol (1982).
The approximate levels of exchangesble sodium percentage (ESP) corespondind co cho
nee CLegorien of tolerance ater sestitive Leas than 15 ESPs semi tolerant 15-40
ESP: Colerane more than 40 ESP. Tolerance decrenses in cach col from fop to
Boton. The tolerances listed sce celative becomes sunliy, matricionsl factors sng
Sdverac soil conditions stunt Rroweh before renching these levels, Soil wich an BSF
Shove 0 Vi11 Uaually have too poor phykical seructure for mood crop production.
Tolerances. in most instances were. established by Firat sabiliting soil structure.

--- PÁGINA 95 ---
rT.

Particular care in assessment of a potential toxicity due to SAR
or sodium is nooded with high SAR wator because apparent toxic effects
Of s0diun may be Gue to or complicated by BOOF WALer infiltration. As
Snoen in Table 1s, only the more sensitive perennial crops have yield
Tousen due to sodium Lf the physical condition of the soil remains’ good
enough to allow adequate infiltration. Several of the crops listed as
more tolerant do show fair growth when moll structure is maintained
Gnd; in genoral, those crops can withstand higher ESE levels if ene
soil structure and aration can be maintained, as in coarse textured
ois)

4.0.3 soron

Boron, unlike sodium, is an essential element for plant growth.
(Chloride is’ also essential but in such small Quantities that it is
frequently classed non-essential.) Boron 1s needod in relatively small
amounts, however, and if present in amounts appreciably greater than
necded, it becomds toxic. For some crops, if 0.2 mg/l boron in water is
essential, T to 2 mg/l may 50 toxic. Surface water Farely contains
enough boron to be toxic but wall water or springs occasionally contain
Eoxic amounts, especially near geothermal areas and earthquake faults.
Boron problems Originating fron the water are probanly more frequent
than those originating in tho Soil. Boron toxicity can atfect nearly
all crops but, like Salinity, there is & wide range of tolerance smony
crops.

Boron toxicity symptoms normally show first on older leaves as a
yollowing, spotting, of drying of Leaf tissue at the ips and edges.
Drying and chlorosis often progress toward the cantrs betueen the veins
(intorveinal) as mors and more boron accumulates with timo. On serious
iy affected trees, such aa almonds and other trae crops which da not
Show typical leaf symptoms, a gum or exudate on limbs or trunk is often
Roticoablo.

Most crop toxicity symptoms occur after boron concentrations in
Leaf blades exceed 250-300 my/kg (ry weight) bue not all sensitive
crops accumulate boron in eat blades. For example, stone fruits
(peaches, plums, almonds, otc.), and pone fruits (apples, pears and
others) are easily damaged by boron but they Go not accumslate Fufi-
iene baron in the leal tissue for leaf analysis to be a reliable
diagnostic test. With those crops, boron excess must be confirmed from
Soil and water analyses, tree symptoms and Growth characteristics.

A wide range of crops was tested for boron tolerance by using
sanc-culture techniques (Eaton 1944): Previous boron tolerance tables
Tn general use have been bancd for the mout part on these data. These
cables reflected boron tolerance at Which foxicity symptoms wers ire:
observed and, depending on srop, covered one to three soasons of
Dreigation: The ofiginal data from these early experiments, pls data
fron many othor sources, have recently boon revicwed (Wass 1984). Table
16 presents this recent’ revision of tho data. Tt Ls not based on plant
symptoms, but upon a significant loss in yield to be expected if the
halcated boron valuo is oxceddod. Table ‘17 presents recent data on
citrus and stone fruit rootstosks and are listed in order of increasing
boron accusalat ion.

4.2 MANAGEMENT OF TOXICITY PROBLEMS

Obviously, the most effective method to prevent occurrence of a
toxicity problem is to choose an irrigation ater that has no potential
25" douclap a toxicity. But if such uater ia not availanle, thers are

--- PÁGINA 96 ---
Sez
able 16 RELATIVE BORON TOLERANCE OF AGRICULTURAL cRoFs'+*
Yoy sensitive (0.5 wg/1) Moderately sensitive (1.0 = 2.0 wg/1)
Leon Citrus timon Pepper, red Capeioun comma
Sackbersy Ado app. rea Fle sativa
Carron Daicue carota
Radian Raha sativa
potato. Stern siberosin
Cucumber dunia sativus
Senstesve (0.5 - 0.75 wg/1)
Avocado bevaca guartozna
rapefrute Citra § panadiet
Orange Citra sinensis Moderately Tolerant (2.0 = 4.0 ag/1)
Apricor Primi arenias
Pack Primi persica Lettuce Loto sativa
Chere Frm Goin Cabbage Bncesion slerasea capitata
Fl rms dmeatioa ery, Iti grasecions
Forstamon Doepyroe Jaks Turnip Srceacon rapa
Flo, doa riod sain Bluegrass, Kencucky Foi pratensis
Grape Vitis vinizers ones vera sativa
sad glans regia Hatze Tua may
Pecan Cine filoienace Artichoke Cynara scolyms
Coupes Tigra unionist Tobacco ootiza satan
pitta Joins Morcare Brvasion dunce
Clover, sweet wel iomis indi
Savant Ourbia pero
Wskaelon  Civeia nels
Senstetve (0.75 - 1.0 ag/D)
pa Alien sativem
Sweet potato Tpomove 1rtaice Tolerant (4.0 = 6.0 ag/1)
hese icin avis
sare tordian lgare Sorghua Sorghum bicolor
Sania eliamtois aroseun Tomato Zuocpensioon Tyacpensicum
Bean, min gna radiate prety Neddaago ative
Sevaae Semen tnd Vetch, ‘purple Via Senghatonnte
opine Tuts harcoagis paally’ Fetmoselin crtepum
Scravberry Popa on Beet, red Duta myles
Artichoke, Jerusaion Suafbest pels miigaris
Hetiantine suberorin
Rewn, kidaey  Thaneotis ou lgete
sown la” coi: Gini
Groundnut Peanut fesonis hypogas
rene Very Tolerant (6.0 15.0 m/1)
Goreon Goanpiion imei
opacar  Gopatapis priate
! bata taken from Nass (1980).
© Mavimm concentrations tolerated fn soflvater without yield or vepetstive growth
reductions. Boron tolerances vary depending upon cliaate. soil Coaticions and crop
“arictics. Hevinwm Concentrations in the Areigacion vater ate spprociastely equal to
These values or sidghely lease

--- PÁGINA 97 ---
Ces
Tuble 17 CITWUS AND STOVE FAULT S00TSTOCES LISTED IN ORDER OF INCREASING BORON
'ACCIMILATION AXD TRANSPORT T0 LEAVES"
Common Name sotantcal Name Tvl of Veron
ccamulation
pre

Aleaow Citrus masrephyita Low

Gajantoms Citra pemivetontata on Citrus noi

Chinese hox orange Severinia burifotia

Sour orange Citrus quranciin

Celanondin X Clementine ia mitis

Sweet orange Ciera sinenods

Yoru citrus unos

Rough Leson Citra Lown

Grapetruit Cite X pavadisd

Rangpur tise Cir X Timms

Troyer cltrange X Clzmonoimie vebberi

Sevag citrange X Ciemonaimig vebbert

Clespacea mandarin Cima vasimlata

Rusk citrange X Citronoiras veblert

Sunk mandarin Ctra verimiata

Seeet Tenor Creme Timm

Trifoliate oange Ponies taifotiazs

Clezumelo 4075 Fonotrua cifotias X Citrus paradist

Porkan mandarin Cita rarioutata

Saapson tangelo Citra 1 sangelo

Coban haddock Cloris asin

Socket lime Citric cunmedifolia igh

stone Frute

Almond Frames dios Lox

Hyeobalan plum Freie aeravifers

Apricot Pras aren ams

Marianna plea Frames dematio

Shall pene Perse persion an
+ Data taken fron sass (1954).
often management options than can be adopted to reduce toxicity ana
improve yiclas.

The potentially toxic ions sodium, chloride and boron can each
be reduced By leaching in a manner similar to that for salinity, bat
the depth of water required varics with the toxic lon and may in some
cases become oxcessive. If leaching becomes excessive, many growers
Change to a more tolerant crop. Increasing the leaching of changing
Crops in an atcompe to live with the higher levels of toxic ions may
Fequire extensive changes in tho farming system. Tn cases wher the
toxicity problem is not too severe, relatively minor changes in farm
cultural practices can minimize the impact. In a few cases, an alter
Bative water supply may be available to blend with a pooter supply to
Tower the hazard 17cm tne poorer one.

Alternatives for management of toxicity and to maintain produc
tion are discussed in tne £ollowing sections.

--- PÁGINA 98 ---
Cee
4.2.0 Leaching

A parallel can bo drawn between salinity and toxicity. The toxic
ions (ch10rido, sodium and fo a lesser extent boron) are an appreciable
PAL of the normal salinity accumulation in the root sone and; as with
Salinity, leaching is the only practical way lo reduce ‘and control
those toxic fons in the Crop Foot one. A toxieity can develop within a
fou" lerigations of within one or more growing seasons, depending. upon
tho toxic ion concentrations in the irFigation water and the leaching
fraction accomplished:

Leaching can be used either to prevent a problem or to correct
the problon aftor it has been recognized from plant symptoms or damage
15 the” crop. Plant. symptoms along with ell, plant and water analyses
aro “Very Useful for monitoring for Doth potential toxicity andthe
Sdequacy of present leaching practices and crop management. If the
toxic fon is coming from the ‘irrigation water; emphasis should be
places on prevention through adequate leaching: fn continvously (rri-
Safed areas, reclamation should not be mecessary usless leaching has
boon’ inadeglate ana excess toxic ions hive bullt up to concontrations
that affect crop product ion.

Chloride ions move readily in the applied irrigation water and
make up an important part of water and Soil falinicy. The concentration
factors for saiinity Given in Tanie & also apply fof the chloride ion:
Tho. concencration factor tor a cortain leaching eraction (Table 3)
multiplied by the concentration of the Chloride fon in the water will
Closely approximate the expected average concentration in the trop root
Zone: ChiSEide can be leached and the leaching requirement equation (5)
Er Salinity (Rnoades 1370), a5 Gesoribed in Section 2.4.2, is squaily
appropriate” for calculating the leaching requirement for chloride if
£88" Chloride tolerance (Cle in saturation extract) and the chloride in
the irrigation water (CI) are known. The LR equation then becomes:

a
[EI N an
© 7 ser Ta,
whores TRigy) = the minimum leaching reguiroment needed to control
Chloride with Sialnary hurlace methods of Lrrigetion
C1, = chloride concentration in tne applisd irrigation water
v In miitiequivatonts por litro (Ro/1)

1, = chloride concentration toloratod by crop as determined
in the ‘soil Saturation sxeract, in milliequivaients
por Litre (mo/1)

Sodium ions cause tonicities to sodium sensitive crops (mostly
tro crops and woody ornamentals) at a lower SAR value than would by
Sxpected to cause a permeability prosioa. The sodium fons move less
Teadily with the Sofi-vater than do chlorides. However, renearch
indicates that Nigh louching fractions (LE) can be sifective to
maintain a low soll SAK but for SAK values in the “ater in oxcess of 9.
Vithoue added anendeants, a leaching raction OF 0.30 or greater may be
Tequired. bel iverately adoing Such large quancities of water in an
Gitoapt to control sodium COXiCity may mot be practical becauss this
may cause provloms with Soil aeration and drainage. A preferred
Eotucion 1750" 40a moderate amunts of gypeus or calcium ‘supplying
fertilizer materials (acidifying if lime it presenc: basic or caltium
supplying IF no soil lime is presencr: If Teschira plus ancnomonts
Cafnot control the sodium toxicity provles, a change co's more solerant
G2op nay be advisable:

--- PÁGINA 99 ---
aso

Soron is much more ¢ifficilt to lesen than are chloride and
Sodiun. “Boron moves Sloviy Wilk Sho Soll-water ard requires about hres
Eines as much leaching water as ould bo heeded to reduce an Cauivaione
amount of enlor de of salinily. In many Field observations the boron
Concentration in the soil Saturation xiract of tne upper root sons
Usually approaches that ir the irrigation water spplisd. With good
irrigation management, <t should be possible to toducs and Aaintatn’ the
upper root zone S511 ‘at nesrly the hers boron concentration af in the
holies water,

As atacussed above, tho key to controlling a toxicity probles is
to select a good source of irrigation water and tren leach 4s needed io
Control any “toxic built-up which may Lpair crop production: it the
{7100 150 management 15 550% and hareful concentrations develop,
amendments and reclamation Leaching may be needed to restore soil
product lvity. For reclamation leaching, tho sare general guides apply
for botn salinity and chloride (ave Section 2.416). for boron, the sare
Drinciplos apply bub about thras tines a8 mesh water will Be messed:
Plgure’ 22 snous tno doptn of eter ramirez to leach a nigh boron soil
Compared with that roquired to jeach & saline 4oil. Rasent research
indicates that 511 sopicacion of sulphuric acid may speed reclamation
Sf a boron at focted oil but ho extensive £isid Leste or obervations
fre "availabe to cantirn this.

10
FES © WiERHTTENT PovoN
: 3 © seRNKLNG
Sos
$ os
H
H
H
od or ©
3 B
Fi ) ~
HE RD
HE
(I EE ET SR
Dus of laocheg war por unt eo of sa, 64/4,
Fig 2 oepih of Leaching wacer poe unit depch
esi" ceccized ‘to aciain 4 soil
ohesentis ph In boron
Getta 1239)

--- PÁGINA 100 ---
a -
4.2.2 crop Selection

Selecting a more tolerant crop offers a very practical solution
to a toxicity problem. Thors are degrees of sensitivity to boron.
chloride ana sodium just as there are degrees of sensitivity to
Salinity. Limited inforsation is available on the relative tolerance of
crops to toxic fons. Table 14 presents dita for chloride, Table 15 for
sodium, “and Tables 16 and 17 for boron. It must be kept in mind that
these are approximations and local farming conditions may modify them.
Factors affecting tolerance include climate, irrigation management,
1eaching Traction, drainage, Groweh stage of the crop and crop maturity

The selection of tolorant rootstocks or cultivars is another
method Of changing the crop to cope With the existing conditions.
Cortain rootstocks or varieties Giffor in their ability to exclude ions
suchas ‘chloride (see Table 14) or boron (see Table’ 17) and produce
Good crops undor loss than Leal conditions.

4.2.3 cultural practices

Since leaching fs tho principal method of toxic fon control,
cultural practices to aid in managemont of irrigation water at tno farm
level are the keys to success. Cultural practices which offer better
control and distribution Of water include land grading, profile
modification and artificial drainage if natural drainage is inadequate.
Taose steps ‘are complementary fo those previously discussed for
improved salinity and toxicity control.

The severity of a toxicity problem will incroase as the crop
withdravs soil-uater and the soil dries botween Irrigations (Figure 4)
The ons become concentrated in the smaller volume Of Soil-water. As
Eh uppor Soil dries, the Crop must withdraw more and more of its ater
needs Fron the deeper soil where salinity and toxic fons are usually in
Greater concentration. Increasing ho frequoncy of ierigation supplies
Greater proportion of the water noods from che upper Soil as weil az
diluting the docpor soil-vater and should reduce the impact of both
Salinity ang toxic lone. This nas been previously discussed in Section
pris

Fertilization practices are normally thought to offer little
benefit to counter salinity, but Lor toxicity such as that from boron
n'a citrus crop, many growers are applying extra nitrogen to seimulate
vegetative geowth. Boron first accumiiates to toxic amounts (n the
lds: leaves which than become necrotic ind Grop, thereby reducing tne
Photosynthetic capability of the tree. In this case, nitrogen in used
To stimulate neu growth to restore the leaf area and photosynthetic
Capability. Loaf analysis for nitrogen is the guido to the nitrogen
coquirenent. For oxample, tho recommended nitrogen guideline for tho
Washington Navel Orange {s 2.4-2.6 percent nitrogen {dry weight) in 5
to J-month ola terminal spring cycle leaves [rom non-iruiting, non-
Flushing Shoots. But, If boron becomes a problem, this guideline is
raised to nearer to 2.7-2.8 porcont N ana fortilitation practices are
modified to resen it.

I takes time to accumulate boron in the leaves. A crop like
walnuts may not accumulate sufficient quantities from moderate amounts
of boron (1 to 2 ma/1) in the water fo damage tne crop bafors it is
hacvosted. In such a case, toxicity is a potential threat and by tho
Gnd of the season most leaves will show severe boron toxicity (8 = 1500
mg/kg). Even though the quality of crop is mot greatly affected, the
treo vigour and size may bo. Alfalta grown in the Clear Lake area of

--- PÁGINA 101 ---
cere
California using relatively high soron water (10 mg/l) is apparently
cut froquently enough to avoid raccanizeable prosloess similarly, Golf
course greens at Calistoga, Cal-foeria, irrigated with high boron
wastowator (2 to 3 mg/l) Fave not shou coxicity symproms, prosusaply
for the same reason (se Section 5.25).

Sodtun toxicity (high SAR) rom applied water is generally
countered by use of a soil or wazer ameriment such as gypsun. In
general, whore ‘salinity of water is relatively low (ECw 0.5 dem), the
beneficial response to a water-applie: amendment is much gresier than
§f salinity ie high because it io far easier Lo change the sodium to
calcius ratio of a relatively Low salinity water than oms of higher
salinity. S011 amondmorts rather ‘nan water amendments are rolied upon
£0 correct a sodium problea relates to a alonly Saline mater or to a
high ESP soll. It also becomes hore ciificuls to correct the sodium
toxicity as the soil Clay content iroroases. Using amendments thouls
not be expected to mitigate chloride or boron problems, unless the
amengnent improves wator {ntiltatior and soil pecmeability which would
permit increased leaching co take place. Amendrents are discusses in
more detail in Section 3.2.1.

4.2.4 Blending water Suzplise

If an alternative water supply is available, but not fully
adequate in quantity or quality. a bien: of waters may offor an overall
Inprovement “in quality and “educa tha potential taxicisy prebiem.
Blending is especially effective for a sodium toxicity problem since
Proportions of monovalent (Na®) and divalent (Cas) cations absorbed cn
Fhe’ 8011 depend or. corcencration, %ith dilution favouring adsorption of
the “divalent calciua and racnesiue lone rather than the monovalent
soaiun. A discussion of a quality charge resulting from blending is
Given in Section 2.4.7 and Secsien 3.1.3.

4.3 TOXICITY EFFECTS OU TO SPRINCLER IRRIGATION

Overhead sprinkling of sensitive crops can cause toxicities not
encountered unen irrigating by surtace mothoie. The toxicity occurs due
£0 oxcess quantities Of 8odiun ard chloride from the Lrrigaticn water
being absorbed through leaves Wet by tne sorirkiers. Extreme cases nave
resulted in severe isa burn and “ofollation. Absorption and toxicity
Gccur mostly during sericis of Nigh temperature and low hisidisy (35
percent), frequently aggzavazes by windy conditions. Rotating sprinkler
Roads present the greatest ciss. Bolwick relations vator evaporates and
the salts become more concentrates in the Shrinking volume of water.
Slowly rotating sprinklers (less than 1 revolution per minute) cadse
alternate wetting and drying cyolos: tna slower the speed of rotation
She greater the absorption. Nish froquorcy (near daily) spray ircige-
tion has also created prolens in cone cases.

The leaf bure and resul:ing crep camage seems to be cue to
uptake from tho applicd water of ©linor sodium or Ghiorice. In some
Unstances both sodium and calor ide have seen absorbed and bath sccumi
late. Toxicity to sensitive crops cccurs at relatively lov Sodium or
chloride concentrations (*3 me/1} ard, In gereral, crops sensitive to
Sodium or chloride are thought to be most sensitive to foliar absorp
tion. Nost “annual crops are not sera‘tive but they wiil be damaged LE
Concentrations are high enough. Crop tolerances to sodium and chloride
in sprinklor-appiiod lreigation water are Hot woll estaplished due to
linited data and the pronounce: influcnce Gf ciimatic conditions, but
Table 18 gives ostimaces based upor recort field investigations. They
Should bo Used as a firs: approximation of the potential narard ana any

--- PÁGINA 102 ---
as

situation which approaches the sodium or chloride values given should

be further evaluated by field testing before full implementation of the

application system.

Table 18 RELATIVE TOLERANCE OF SELECTED CROPS TO FOLIAR DLIURY FRG SALINE

WATER APPLIED BY SPRINKLERS +*
Na¥ oF C1 concentrations causing foliar Tajury’
ert

<5 5-10 10-2 “20
‘Nsond Grape. Arata Cauliflower

(Prous duteie) (Vicia app.) (Medisago eativa)  (Braseioa oleracea

Apricot Pepper Barley botrytia)
Teme amentasa) | Iapeices amma) © (Hondeun wulgare) Cotton

Cigrun rotate Corn (natze) (Gonapisen hirestun]
Elie ap.) USSiaman tubsromen) (fea mays) Sugarbeet

lum Tomato Cocumber Teota ulgaria)
(Praia demeatica)  (Lysoperaioon [Cuenta satima) Sunflower

Tyeoperaizen) Safflower (autiantiue armas)
Sonar inion)
Sorghia
(sorghm bicolor)

+ Data taken from dans (1984).

+ Susceptibility based on direct accumulation of salts through the leaves.

* Lest absorption and foliar fajury are faflucaced by cultural and environmental
Conditions such an drying winds, lov humidity, speed of rotation of sprinklers,
ni the liming and frequency of irrigation. Data preseaced are only general
uidelines for late spring and summer daycine spriakling.

Toxicity has occurred in California Citrus areas on leaves wot
by sprinklers With water at concentrations as low as 3 me/l of either
scdiun or chloride. With furrow and flood irrigation this same wator
Causes no toxicity or leaf burn. Slight damage has been reported on
aifaifa using water with BCw = 1.35 05/m and 6 me/1 sodium and 7 me/1
Chloride, but this was uncer high evaporative, possibly windy condi-
Tions, using rotating sprinklers (Table 19). In’ contrast, water as high
2s ECw = 4.4 dS/m with 24 me/L sodium and 37 me/l chloride showed
little or ‘no damage when evaporative conditions were low (Table 20).
he sensitivity also depends upon the crop. Several vogotablo crops
Tested were fairly insensitive to foliar GEfects even at very high
Concentrations and in semi-arid areas.

Foliago can be damages by salt from ocean spray or from drift
from sprinklers accumulating on the leaf Surfaco. This has occurred
along the Pacific Coast of California os well as in downwind aritt
reas from sprinklers. Other leas frequent problems also occurring with
Sprinklers include reddish deposits on leaves cue to irom contont of
the sprinkler-applied water and whito deposits from bicarbonate or
other ‘deposits from water solubles such as Gypsum. Wile these are not
Toxicition, they can reduce tho marketability of 4 foliage crop or the
acceptability of a crop such as table grepes (see Section 5.3).

Where foliar absorption Or deposition is a problem, certain
managomont practices have been Successful to counter it. Fach parti-
CulaZ problém will need to be cvaluated separately. Some practices may

--- PÁGINA 103 ---
Ces -
Tuble 19 LEAT BURN ON ALFALFA VITH THREE RATES OF WATER APPLICKTION BY SPRINKLER
IRRIGATION IN IMPERIAL VALLEY, CALIFORNIA *+*
EE — Tg TTT
[=]
_ Ls il so
Alfalfa plants vich leat burn (percent) 92.5 50 25
“Data taken from fobtason (1980).
© eetgaeion vater quality Bow = 1,35 ds/m
™s «875 mg/l
[en
da -imn
Tae 20 SODIUM CONTENT 1 COTTON LEAVES IN PERCENT OVEN ORY WEIGHT +
—. Thay wg Surface |
id Spine sprimes teeigates
Store staple 0.73 0.46 0.64
Lows scape x oii oli
"Daca taken from Busch and Torner (1967).
© Trcigation vater quality Bow + bd ds/e
No aim
require minor changes in management while others will require more
olaborate alterations including holding reservoirs Of replacing the
Irrigation system.

Irrigato at night: Night sprinkling is quite effective in
reducing oF $Liminating Both sodium and chloride foxicicy dus fo foliar
absorption and has alfo reduced the problem of foliar deposit. As
husidicy generally rises at night and winds decrease, th race of
evaporation and concentration is reduced. Night irrigation hes also
been of benefit by lowering night-time temperatures during very het
periods. Table 20 Shows differences in sodium content in cotton leaves
When night and daytime aprinklor Lrrigation was compared.

Avoid periods of high wind: Hot, dry winds are a major factor
in tho concentration, absorption and deposition. Avoiding thesa periods
for overhead sprinkling miniaites the problem and avoids gossibio leaf
burn caused by Grift fo downwind crop areas. In some arcas, this may
require night Srrigation.

control sprinkler drift: In hot, windy areas, the downwind
ariee trom sprinkler (rrlgatlon presents a risk. THis rift, if ic
lands on sdjacent plant leaves, is more concentrated than the applicd
sprinkler Vater. To minimize the potential loaf burn, movable Spin:
Klers should ba moved progressively downwind rather than upwind in
order to wash away drifted salts as soon as possible. To avoid drift
Guring nigh risk periods requires sprinkling bring carly morning. late
ovening and night hours whon the winds are likely to bo loss than in
She middle of the day. Mist rorzles or high pressure Impact sprinklers
should be avoided in windy areas where arift 1s likely to bo a problem,
Grouping sprinklers In blocks is preferable to long widely spaced
Single rows if rift is likely to be a prolen.

--- PÁGINA 104 ---
- 90 -

Incresse sprinkler rotation speeds: Slowly ratating sprinklers
allow approciable drying on the Ieaves between Sprinkler rotations.
More. treguent Or continuous wetting Of foliage allows less drying of
leaves and less absorption than intermittent wetting and drying. A
sprinkler head rotation of one revolution per minute or less is often
recommended, but to achieve this may involve changing the type of
Sprinkler head and, in some cases, the pressure and design Of the
Syston. This alternative may prove costly to implement Lf the same
water use efficiency is to be maintained.

Increase rate of application: If soil water storage capacity
ana water nfiTtration Fats permit, a higher rate of application may
reduce damage by reaucing the total period of crop wetting. This would
Feduce the severity of toxicity due to leaf absorption. Increasing the
application rate can be accomplished by enlarging the sprinkler
orifices, increasing the pressure, or reducing tho spacing on the
Sprinkler system, but this might require a costly change in Sprinkler
Syston design. Tablo 19 shows the leaf burn associated with differant
Fates of application for the Imperial valley of California. The dats
[Rdicate that application rates loss than 2.7 mm/he cause excessive
amounts of loaf burn on alfalfa during the high evaporative demand
(summer) ‘prio in this California desert climate (Robinson 1980).

Change irrigation method: Sprinkler systems which moisten only
a 1icefc ot the Fol age can Greatly reduce the absorbtion Droblem. Lov
3ngle or undertres sprinklers wot less of the leaves, bur in many cases
any dower leaves that are moistened atill show symptoms from foliar
ab%orption and in Some Cases the lower branches may be defoliated. A
Survey of citrus orchards in Californie Showed that leat burn and
Gafoliation vars associated with the lower leaves that had been wetted
by sprinkler spray. Non-sprayed leaves from the upper portions of the
Erocs and leaves from furfow irrigated trees showed no loaf damage and
markedly lower sodium contont. In Bahrain (seo Section 8.5), similar
Tenults have been shown with Lemon trees. Furrow, (lod, busin or Grip
Lrrigation arc viable alternatives since they do not wet the loaves.

As demonstrates on some commercial farms in western USA, pivot
irrigation Aprinkler systems can be modified with drop lines to apply
the uater to the S011 and not to the leaves for many crops.

Increase aroplet size: Where a change in sprinkler system
osign is neodoa, Sprinkler Meads that apply a larger droplet size will
Fosult In loss absorption as small droplets are more subject to
Guaporation and wind drift. While increasing aroplec size may reduce
The’ effect from Eollar absorption, a furthor assessment noods to be
Sade of the effect of drople: size on soil dispersion, Sealing and
Compaction which could cause Greater runoff.

Select ditforont crops: In oxtrome cases it may be necessary to
change from tho more sensitive crops, such as beans and grapes, if they
Cano longor bo sconomically produced. Local experience should provide
"Guide to crops more tolerant to tho given conditions.

Plant during cooler seasons: Planting crops during the coolor
part of the GToving Season Faduces fotal Uater use and tne hazards from
Sprinkler spplicd water, Those coolor eason Crops can samotimes be
harvested before periods of extremely low humidity. Crops planted in
he cooler season havo a beter chance to mature before tho sodium of
chloride can accumulate to high enough concentrations Lo cause toxicity
Sanage. Changing the growing scacon ls an extreme alternative which
Shoula only bo taken after assessment Of tho market possibilities for
She now planting date.

--- PÁGINA 105 ---
Cae
5. MISCELLANEOUS PROBLEMS
5.0 excess NITROGEN

Nitrogen is a plant nutrient and stimulates crop growth. Natural
8011 nitrogen or added fortilizora are the usual sources, but nitrogen
in the irrigation water has much the Same effect as soil-applied
gortilizer nitrogen and an excess will cause problems, Just as too much
fertilizer would. If excessive quantities are present or applied,
production of several Commonly grown crops may bo. upaet because of
Sver-stinulation of growtn, delayed maturity of poor quality.

The most readily available forms of nitrogen are nitrate and
ammonium but nitrate (NO, -N) occurs most frequently in itfigation
Vater. Awmonium-nitrogen Ls seldom present in excess of 1 mg/l unless
ammonia fertilizer or wastewater is being added to the water supply.
The concentration in most surface and groundwater 1s usually less than
5 59/1 NOy-N but some unusual groundwater may contain quantities in
excess of ‘$0 mg/l. Drainage water from bolow the root fone froquently
has Migher levels of nitfogen due Lo doop leaching of fertilizers,
Since nitrogen is present in 0 many water supplies, it is recommended
that the nitrogen Content of all Lrrigation Water bo monitored and the
nitrogen present included as an integral part of the planned fortiliza.
tion  programse. Wastowster, especially from £008 processing and
Gomeatic sources, is known to be Righ in nitrogen with values ranging
Erom 10 ta 30 23/2 (1 mg/L NON = 1 kg N/1000 =" Of water).

Thero ace many ways of reporting nitrogon since it is combined
in various organic ama’ inorganic complexes. The mest important factor
£oc plants is the total anount Of nitfogen (N) regardless of whothor it
is in the form of nitrate-nitrogen (NOy-N), ammonium nitrogen (NA. -N)
oF organic-nitrogen (Org-N). By reporting’ in the form of mitropens
Compar sons Can be made. For sxasple, Noy. means nitrogen in the form
Of HO, while Wi,-N means nitrogen in the form of WA. raported as N in
m0/1° (10 mg/1 N + 45 ma/1 NO; = 13 mg/l NH, but each should bo
Coported as 10 mg/l No,-N or 10 mg/L H.-A). In the guidelines of Table
1,70 is roportod as nitrogen in the form of nitrate (NO-N) because
this is the Usual form Found in natural water.

Sensitive crops may be affected by nitrogen concentrations shove
5 m9/1. Mast other crops are relatively unaffected until nitrogen
exceeds 30 ma/l- For exanple. sugarbeots, a sensitive crop, increase in
Size with cxcessive nitrogen fertilization but the sugar content and
ugar purity aro Lower, thus the total quantity of recoverable sugar
produced por nectars may actuzlly be reduced. Grapes are also sensitive
nd may continue to grow late into the season at the expense of fruit
production. Yields are often reduced and grapes may be late in maturing
and have 4 lowr sugar content. kxperiance in Libya indlcatod that
almost no fruiting occurred in Grapes wien a water containing »50 ma/L
OF N was usod continuously. Maturity of [ruil such ac apeicot, citrus
and avocade may also be delayed and the fruit may be pooror in quality,
thus affocting tho marketability and storage 11fa. Tn many grain cops,
SKCOSSLVO VeGLALive Growth produces weak Stalki that Cannot support
She grain weight, resulting in severe lodging and difficulties for
machine harvesting. lodging is cspecially serious in areas with high
Vinds or periodic heavy rains. Tho new shori-staturs wheats are better
Adapted and arc heavily fertilized without severe lodging. Rurinant
animals are sensitive to nitrogen and heavy applications fo pastures
Used for direct or indirect livestock food may cause oxcossive quant iv
Eies co accumulate in the foreqe. This may bo hazardous to the animals’
health.

--- PÁGINA 106 ---
J.

The sensitivity of crops varies with the growth stage. High
nitrogen levels may be bonaficial during carly growth stages but may
Cause yield losses Guring the later Flowering and fruiting scages. High
Ritrogen wator can be used as a fertilizer sarly in the seasons
However, as the nitrogen needs of the Crop iminish latar in the
Growing season, the nitrogen applisd to the Crop muse be substantially
Foduced. Blending or changing supplies during the later more critical
Growth stages should be helpful. Another option is to plant a less
Sensitive Crop, such as maizo, Which can utilize the niteogen from the
irrigation water more effectively. For crops irrigated with water
containing nitrogen, the rates of nitrogen fertilizer supplied to tne
Crop can be reduced by an amount very nearly equal to that available
from the water supply. Crop rotations can be planned to utilize
residual nitrogen in the soil during the non-irrigation season. This
may also be helpful in reducing the impact in succeeding years.

Less than 5 mg/l N has little effect, even on nitrogen sensitive
crops, but may stimulate nuisance growth of algas and aquatic plants in
Streams, lakes, canals and drainage itches. Very rapid growth of algac
Can occur when temperature, Sunlight and other nutfionts are opt imum,
and may result in plugged valves, pipelines and Sprinklers requiring
Sither mechanical controls such as screens ana filters, or chemical
control, with materials such as copper sulphate. Nitrogen in water also
increasés maintenance costs for clearing vegetation from canals and
drainage channels.

Denitrification to remove NO)-N trom the water supply bofore use
may be the only other alternative but is not used because of the high
Cost ‘of equipment and energy. Since nitrogen ia a valuable resource it
Should be utilized Lf possible.

5.2 ASNORMAL pi

PH is an indicator of the acidity or basicity of a water, but is
s01don a provles by Ltsolf- The main use Of pH in a water anaiysis is
for detecting an abnormal vator. The normal ph range for irrigation
water io from 6.5 £0 8.4. An abnormal vali is a warning that Che ator
heeds Further valuation. lrrigation water with a pif outside the normal
Tange may Cause a nutritional imbalance or may contain a tOKic ion.

Low salinity water (Kw <0.2 S/n) sometines has a pH outside
the normal range since it has a very jou buffering capacity. Tnis
Should not cause undue alarm other than to alert the user fo 4 possible
Imbalance of Lons and tho necd to establish the reason fof tho adverse
PH through full laboratory analysis. Such ater normally causes fow
Probloms for soils or crops bul in very corrosive and may rapidly
Corrode pipelines, sprinklers and control equipment.

Any change in the soll pH caused by the water will take place
slowly since the soll is strongly buttered and rosiste change. An
adverse i may need to be corrected, Lf possible, by the introduction
Gf an amengmonc into the water, but this will only be practical in a
fou instances. Te may be vasior ‘to orroct the soil pu problem that may
Geuelop rather than fry to rest the water. Lime is fommenly applied 1
the soil to corroct a low ph and sulphur or othor acid material may be
asa To correct a nign pn. Gypsum hat Little or no effect in controls
1ing an acid aoil problem apart from supplying 8 nutritional source of
calcium, but it 18 effective in reducing a nigh Soll pH (ph greater
than 8.5) causea by high exchangeable sodium.

The grostost direct hazard of an abnormal ui in water is the
tmpact ‘on {rrigation equipment. Bquipment will need to be chosen
Carefully for unusual water (see Section 3.8).

--- PÁGINA 107 ---
Sua
5.3 scaie peposizs

Irrigation water containing a high proportion of slightly
soluble ‘salts such as calcium, bicarbonate and sulphate presence 3
Continual problem of white scale formation on leaves or Fruit when
Sprinklers are used. Although there is no toxicity involved, tne
deposits often build up on the leaves and fruit and are of special
Concern when flowers, vegotasies or fruits are grown for tho fresh
Rarkot. The deposit reduces tro marketability of fruit and foliage and,
in the case of fruit like apples and pears, roguires an expensive
treatment (acid wash) before marketing. (small Grip emitters re also
subject to Geposits accumuleting near small openings, resulting in
clogging. This clogging problem is covered in Section 3.7.)

The principal problea is caused by calcium in combination with
bicarbonate ‘and occasionally with Sulphate (gypsum). Deposits form oven
at very low concentrations if sprinklers are used during periods of
Very low humidity (less than 30 porcent), resulting in a high rate of
cvaporation. Between rotations or cycles of certain sprinkler types,
the droplets laff on the leaves partially evaporate to concontrata the
salts. If the concentration is Great enough the less soluble salts
Such as lime (Cac0)) and gypsum (Caso.) #{11 procipitate and once
precipitated will not readily re-dlssolue during subsequent wettings as
Phe sprinkler rotates. Deposits thon begin to build up. Thess may
become a serious problem with certain water when nowsr types of
sprinkler systems are used that apply light, frequent applications or
have high Gressure nich presents a hazard from Grift to adjacent

Management options to jrevent or correct a deposit provlem will
depend upon the concentration and the irrigation method. Ono technique
isto add an acid material to the water supply fo reduce the bicarbon-
ate, which should in turn reduce the lime precipitate. This has been
Used for special ornamental and foliage crops grown in the greennouse.
One’ recommendation has been to add sulphuric acid to 30 percent of the
HCO, quivalent (personal communication, Rhoades 1376). Tho acidifying
©fgocts of sulphuric acid aro immediate, buc the acid is difficult and
hazardous to Randle and application is normally made on a contract
basis by experienced people: With the nigh level of skill messed for
application, such an oporation will most likely bo costly and rostric-
283 €0 high income crops. As with any acid material, the low pA may
cause damage to pipolings, sprinklors and othor equipment, and careful
Choice of resistant materials ill be necessary of ph must be
Carctully controlled. A pi not less than pA 6.5 scoms to be sate for
Sprinklers.

An altornative approach might bo to change tho design and
operation of the sprinkler systom. This will probably not solve tne
Deabien but may minimize it 55 as Lo Make tho product more marhotablo.
The same Steps taken to reduce toxicity effects (leaf absorption) dus
0 sprinkler irrigation will also reduce Geposits on leaves and fruit
(Sec'section 4.3). The most ueatul measures are:

irrigate at night

= Increase the spesd of sprinkler rotation or use spray

heats

- gecresse the frequency of irrigation.

these management steps may roduce the problem but they must be
Gost efficient. Under sons Circumstances, it may be moro cconcmical to
Change to an altornative fore of Lrrigation Uhich keeps the water off
FUE ana foliage.

--- PÁGINA 108 ---
va -
5.4 MAGNESIUM pROBLEWS

Soils containing high levels of exchangeable magnesium are often
thought to be. troubled with soil infiltration probime. The role of
magnes ius in causing or partly causing these problems is not well
Gocumented but researchers from several Lrfigated areas have studied
tho problem. At present thers is reasonably good agreement that mag
nesin acts on soils in a uay which is More Like caloium than sodium,
and that it is preferentially adsorbed by the soil to a much greater
Gegree than sodilm but to a slightly less degree than calcium.

In a magnesium dominated water (ratio of Ca/Mg <1) or a magne-
sium soil ‘(soil-water ratio of Ca/Mg <1), the potential offect of
Sodium may Bo slightly increased. In other words, a given SAR value
will Show s1igntly more damage if the Ca/Mg ratio is less than 1. The
Lower the ratio, tho more damaging {s the SAR. Research findings show
ERIC at a given SAR of tho applied water, 3 higher soil ESP than normal
will Tosult whon using a water with a Ca/Mg ratio less than 1 (Ranman
and Bowell 1975)

One concern, however, is that productivity is sometimes reported
to be Low on high magnesium soils or on oils boing irrigated with high
magnesium vater even though (nlltration problems may fot be svident.
The effect may be due to 4 magnosium-induced calcium deficiency caused
by high levels of oxchangeabio magnesius in the soil. Some research
evidence shows that yiolds of crops such as barley, wheat. maize and
Bugarbeots are roducod when the Ca/Mg ratio in soil-vater is less than
one. The function of calcium in plants is not totally understood, but
calcium appears to reduce possible toxicities due to othor ions (Na,
13) in the Foot environment. If the Ca/Wy ratio is near or less than 1;
the uptake and translocation of Ca from soil-ator to the above-ground
parts of the growing crop is diminished due to antagonistic offects of
Righ magnesium or competition for absorption sites to such an extent
that Toss calcium in absorbed. A calcium deficiency may then be
experienced at a higher calciun concentration in the applied water or
in woll-water than would occur if the Ca/Ma ratio woro Bighor.
Although not definitely confirmed, it can 5 anticipated that irric
gation water with a similar ratio (Ca/hy <1) will produce 4 similar
Gffoct if a readily available source of Calcium is not present in the
oils

Other limited research indicates that the ratio of calcium to
total cations in the soilwator may also be critical. A calcium to
total Cation ratio of 0.10 - 0.15 or greater has been mentioned as
hooded for Optimum Toot Growth of barley ‘and cotton.

Thoro are insufficient data to make either the Ca/Mg ratio or
the calcium to coral cation ratio an Gvaluation factor when Judging
tho Suitability of a water for irrigation, but If an irrigation water
is being used that has 4 Ca/M ratio less than onc, or 4 calcius to
total cation ratio less than 0.13, 3 further evaliation is nocded.
Although no conclusive = recommendations can be made, such water may
pose a potential problem related to plant nutrition and an evaluation
Ray be needed to Getormine If a roadily available source of soluble
Galeiin 'Sists in ‘the Soil or whether further stusies are nesded to
Getermine if calcium should be added an a fertilizer or soil
Smendment

Additional roforoncos include: Palival sna Gandhi (1976);
Koonigs and Brinkman (1954); Howard and Adams (1965); Simpson ot al.
(13757; Carter and Webstor (1973); Olrich and Mostata (1376); Fong and
Girien (1970).

--- PÁGINA 109 ---
J.

5.5 TRACE BLENENTS AND THEIR TOXICITY
5.5.1 Natural Occurrence in jister

Trace elements occur [n alnoat all water suppliss but at very
lov concentrations, usually 10ss than a few Kg/l with most less tha
100 picrograns per 1itre (,/1). They are not often Lncluded in a
routine analysis. Surace wafer romally contains lower concentrations
than groundwater, but This is variable and no general guidelines can be
given: As a rule of thusb, irrigation water supplies 4s not need to be
hacked for trace elomenta unless chars is some reason to suspect
toxicity. In almost ‘all cases “hore trace clemorcs are at high levels,
thoy are the rosul: of man's Activities, particularly wastewater
lsposals Any project using uastouater should check for trace elements.
5.5.2 Toxicities

Not all trace elements are toxic and in small quantitiss many
are essential for plant growth (Fa, Wn, Mo, In): Howsvor, excessive
Quantities will cause uadesicasle iccumulations ir plant tissue and
growth reductions. There hava coon fox field experiments from nich
Toxic Limits could be established, ospecially for irrigation water.
However, research dealing wiih disposal Of wastewater nat gained
sufficient experience to prove Useiul in defining limitations. It is
now recognized that most trace slomsats ars readily fixed and accumu
Tate in soils, and because this process is 1argely irreversible,
repeated applications of arounts in excess of plant reeds eventually
contaminato a Boil and may Sither render Lt Fon-productive or the
product unusable. Recent Surveys Of astouazer use have shown that mors
than 85 percent of the applina trace elenent accumulates in the soil
and most” accumulates in tne aurface feu Contimetres (Figure 33).
Although plants co take up the trace slonents, the uptake is normally
50 small that this alone Carnot bo oxseced th reduce appreciably the
Erace element in the 011 in ary reasonable period of tino.

i fe

is 2
re ol me oJ joy)
Heavy cstal content of the sell
Profle after 80 years of Ceris
et ad [ER ——
CEvans. Mitchel ané Salas 1979) JED

--- PÁGINA 110 ---
J.
riiy

A Golmisim) 5.0 Can cases sepredwceivity in acid toile (oh < 5.9), bur
Sore Wikalind volte sc #4 5 7.0 will preciptisce the 10m and

Rp— 00 Toxicity to plans varies widely, ranging from 12 mg/d for
rrp sree a td

Be (elim) 00 Toxetty to plants vactes widely, cargiog from mg/h for kale
Ref syeiysy

pe 0.01 Toute to bases, bests 1nd turnip ac concentrscions ss lov ss
SUT] (2 etn alien Croduriative Hines recommends
in Tl Ranta Tor Sccuomiation fn plants. sd sorts tb
Cotctncracions hat aay be bararul co bse:

0 (ebare) 0.05 Toxic to tomo plants st 0.1 mg/d in wtrient selution. Tanke
A Et a

Cf (hromism 00 Nou generally recognised te an essential growed olement. Cone
J

a Come 020 Toste to a ember of plans at 0.1 to 1.0 ng/L fn sucelent

Fo(Quoris) 10 losctivated by seutesl sod elkalice sodis.

re Garon 50 Wot tonic to plants fn scrated sotle, bat con contelbute to
Soi Refaeli as "Tore of wim ly GF Sarid
Sresohors. and aaiybiemm. Overmasd spEinLling may cossit in
TITY aipoetrs on plants, squigmeas and botiéioge.

[rae 25 Tolerated by amet crops wp 10 3 ag mobiie fn suid. Tox to
En ITS SA ali

He (omogaces) 0.20 Toxic to 4 mmber of crops at a fevrienths (0 8 few g/l, but

Wo (wlasm) 0.01 dar toxic fo plants at sormsl concentrations fn soll sed sacar.
Concentrations of sai able ssiybienin.

Neen) 020 Texte tou member of plants at 0.5 sg/l to 10 mull; reduced
Tomiciey at nouteas oe kanes ph.

nen 5.0 Can LobIME plane cell groweh ac very bigh concentrations.

Se (selon) 0.01 Toe to plese st concentrations as low as O.025 m/l and

Pa

Fc LL ————

[eo

Vo Gms 00 Texte to mau slants st selstively low concentrations.

Gene) 20 Toxte to muy plants ut widely veryieg concentrations; reduced
fons 2 RS

© hsspees from National Academy of Setences (1972) wnt Pest (1972).
© Ihe maxim coucenteation £6 buted on 4 water sppltestion Tate ween fa consistent ith god

irrigation seactices (10 G00 a per hectare sat ear). 1 the ser appiitation rate geeaily

EL han Sones ald 5 sess Send scdingy i Eaeel

202 Tor Vai ved on continuous bests a ov Miter

--- PÁGINA 111 ---
Sere
5.5.3 Evaluation criteria

With the high retention rate in the soil ana the low use by
plants, ideally tho maximum application rate should not excead that
Shich will allow normal crop Growth and Still not exceed any allowable
Concentration in the produce Coming from the fiold. Suggested maximum
Concentrations of trace elements in Lrfigation vater are shown in Table
27 Thos concontrations ars set because of concern for long-term
build-up of trace elements in the oil and for protection of the
agricultural soil resource from irreversible damage. Under normal
iFrigation practices, these suggested levels should provent a build-up
hac might Timit futuro crop production or ut ilizatibn of tne products
Whether vastowator is used as all or only a part of the supply will not
=0Aify these Guidelines as they are based on protection of the soil
Fasource to assure its present and futurs production capability.

The guidelines reflect the current information available but as
they are supported by only limited, long-term Eleld experience, they
are’ necessarily conservative, which means that, if the Suggested limit
13° oxcoodod, a phytotoxicity still may not Secor. The suggested limits
in Table 21’ are’ to ensure that the site can he Used for all potential
crops in the futuro. It is recommended that the values be considered as
the maximus long-term average concentration based upon normal irriga-
tion appiication rates. Whon moro reliable dats become available, the
Tovels may be adjusted. If water above or close to the levels given in
Table 21 is considered for ise, an up-to-date review of mors recent
information Ln suggested to prevent possible future problems.

5.6 NUTRITION AND WATER QUALITY

Water quality has been discussed in this paper based upon four
different effects on crops of soils: salinity, reduced water infiltra-
tion, toxicity, or effects related to a Group of miscellancous water
Constituents. hose effects tomotimes cause nutritional imbalances or
IRtoractions which result in nutritional Lebalances.

5.6.1 Nutrition snd Salinity

Excessive salinity stunts the crop by reducing the availasility
of soil-wator, slowing crop growth and restricting root doveloment.
With higher salinity water, sodius and enloride toxicity are alse
Likely to be evident. As long as the crop is well supplicd witn
Eortilizor oloments, application Of xtra nutrionts to combat the
salinity effects will not improve yield. However, if nutrients such as
Aitrogen are in short supply, raising the nutrient level will usually
improve yield. Saline arces in the field are normally dark green to
blue-green, indicating that thoy are well supplicd with nitrogen. If
yellow, additional nitrogen should improve yield.

Most fertilizers, however, are water soluble salts and placement
ana ratos of uso must take into consideration their potential salinity
Tnpact. (seo Table 3 for relative salinity of representative ferti-
1izersl)

lant tissue analysis for an annual crop is useful to confirm
the prosonce or absence of a caléium deficiency. For oxamplo, with
potato, petioles or loaf material (rom the most recent fully-forsed
Teavos ate normally uscd. Calcium (ry weight hasis) below 0.13 porcont
15 ronanly indicative of a calcium Geficlency, unile values in the
range of 0.15 to 0.20 percent may be suspect. Table LL may also be used
Co prodict a probable calcium deficiency through the Cax valuo. Cax
values less than about 1 =e/L arc often associate with deficiency.

--- PÁGINA 112 ---
Cee

The ratio of Ca/Mg or caleiua zo total cations (Ca/TC) in the
s0il-vater may also be used to procict a potential calciua deficiency,
hore are reports thar Cassy ratios less than 1 of Ca/Tc less than 0.15
are sometines associated with caloiun duficiencies (Ca, Wg and TC in
me/1) (see Section 5.4).

5.6.2 Mater Infileration Probless an: Nutrition

A severe reduction in water infiliration rate cus to water
quality is usually related to o thor very low water salinity or to
igh 00iun ‘adsorstion ratlo SARI. In oliner case, the calcium content
oc tho wator may be at a relatively low concentration. 1f the calcium
in the soll-water taker up by the Crop ta 16as inan 2 mo/L, fnere is a
strong probability that che crop yield will be reduced due bo a caloium
dof icloncy (Rhoades 19821. A potential evallation technigue in to use
the Cax values in Table 11 =o prevent a sessile calcium deficiency.
Irrigation vater for which a predicted equiliorium soi l-water calcium
(Cax] is Toss than 0.7 me/L at'LF = ©.15 or is less than 1.0 m/l at LF
= 0.30 may result in a calciur deficiency. In such cases, calcium
fertilization using granular gypsum or a :aleiua source included in the
fertilizer mix fo Supply calcion ray roszore production potential.

Iron chlorosis in suscop:ible crops (maize, sorghum, Sudan
Grass, and a Low Othors) is suotimes autor by water with 4 relatively
Righ Sodiun adsorpsion ratio (SAR 6; ard can often be corrected by
ropoatod sprays of ferrous Lton or lrcr cnalace, of by using soil
sulphur or gypsum to maintain soil oH less than 8.5 or, as with Sudan
grass, witnaolding of water {delayed irelgation) for several days may
{eprove aeration and correct the chlorosis.

Zine deficiency of paddy rice, 30, has been associated with
sodic soils and a Migh soil PA (385 8.3). In other cases, inc afi.
Cioncy has been attribute: to a Flgh blcarsorato level in the applied
water (HCO, 2.0 o/1) (seo Section 5.6.31.

If soils become waterlogged ard temporarily flooded due to a
reduced water Infiltration rate for aver short periods of a fou days;
and if they lack good aeration, much Of the nitrate-niirogen present
may be quickly denitrifiod ard jost from the soil to the atmosphere as
Ni gas.’ In such cases, the Grop bay soor Show yolloued areas indi
cating deplored nitrogen ani will benefit from added fertilizer
nitrogen.

5.6.3 Nutrition and Texicity

Sodium, chloride or boror tron the ircigation water, taken up by
the crop with the soil-wator, gradually accumulate in tho loaves. If
nose toxic lon accumulate to excessive concentrations; they cause
chlorosis, bronzing and leat burn (necrosis) primarily at the loat top,
leat sages and, ir more severe cases, symptoms may extend between the
veins fron tho leaf edges touara the mid-1est area:

Loaf necrosis caused by boron car sometines be severe enough to
reduce markedly the total ea surface available for photosynthesis.
For cree crops such as citrus, Lf boron accumulation threatens to
reduce total leaf rea appreciably. oxtrs nitrogen fertilization has
been applied to stimulate agiitional vegetative growth to counteract
nie affect.

In the case of sodiur and chloride toxicities, reliance is
placed upon selection of cultivars and rootatocks more tolerant to

--- PÁGINA 113 ---
9s -
sodium or chloride. Asditional fertilization does not appear to be
SErective.

Bicarbonate, although not ordinarily thought to be a toxic ion,
1s reported to cause zinc deficiency Ln Tite. sicarbonate in excess of
2 me/l in the water used for Flooding and growing paddy rice is
reported to cause severe sinc deficiency (Mikkelson 1983). This can be
Fomedied by adding zinc to s0il before flooding or at’ the time of
Sarliest appearance of the chlorosis, Actual 2inc Of 8 to 10 hg/ha trom
Zinc oxide or zinc sulphate is surface applica to remain in the upper 5
to'10 ca of soil.

5.6.4 miscellaneous

Nitrogen in the applied irrigation water 1s generally beneficial
£0 most crops but may cause problems for some. Nitrogen inthe irfiga:
tion water in readily available and if present should be considered as
an’ important part of the fertilizer programe. For most crops. this
Ritogon is equivalent to fortilizer nitrogen and should be included in
Ehe' total nitrogen planned for application. For a few crops, however,
the ‘added nitrogen from the water may be too much and result in
excessive and vigorous growth, delayed of uneven maturity, and reduced
Quality. These sensitive crops include apricots, grapes, sugarsects and
Eton. but there are prosaniy others.

In such cases, the stimulating nitrogen can be reduced by
applying less water: apply the minimum depth required to Supply the
Crop water demand. If water applicd nitrogen is still excessive,
irrigate to cause a moderate but increasing water sicess as the crop
approaches maturity.

Soils high in magnesium or nigh magnesium water may cause a
calcium induced ‘nutritional deficiency. This is discussed in Section
She
5.7 CLOGGING PUOBLENS IN LOCALIZED (DRIP) IRRIGATION SYSTEMS

A localizes (orip) irrigation system is designed to deliver a
very low rate of water application to the plant. Understandably. the
ater must pass through vary small openings of emitters which invite
logging proviens. A complotely blocked opening is easily noticed, but
a partially clogged one is sery 8ifficult to detect. Detection of
partial cioaging Aight involve measuring the dolivory of each opening
Shich would be an Gndlcss task. Plugging results in decreased uni:
foraity Of application and higher operational costs due to. increaned
labour requirements (0 detect and correct it. Plugging can be prevented
5 the system in properly plamnod end dosignod. installation Sf proper
equipment to prevent clogging &t the beginning is usually less oxpen-
S10 than to” try to cortoct the problem afterwards. Recognizing
potential problems beforehand should,” therefore, catty a high priority.
Koforences’ include: Nakayama (1982); vermeiten and Jobling (198017
Sucks eb aL. (1979); Fara and Tucker (1974):

The potential for clogging problems is often related to water
quality. The principal physical, chemical and biological contributors
fo” clogging problems sco summarized in Table 22. Often those actors
are interrelated and the severity can be worsened by a Combination: for
Sxampie, bacterial Aline growths inside GiAtribution and emitter 1ines
aay Cause further plugging when flow ia reduced and suspendea particies
Stick to the sine growths.

--- PÁGINA 114 ---
- 100 -
Table 2) PAYSICAL, CBNICAL AXD BIOLOGICAL CONTRIBUTORS TO CLOGGING OF LOCALIZED
(ORIF) IRRIGATION SYSTEMS AS RELATED TO TRRIGKTION WATER QUALITY
TIGL ‘cmc. semen
Suspended Soliés) _(Precipieation) Bacteria and algae)
1 sane I. Caletum or magnesium carbonate 1. Filsments
2. suc 2. calctim sulphate 2. Sises
3. cay 3. Heavy metal hydroxides, oxides, 3. Microbial
© erento watts carbosates, silicates sad depositions:
+ org Sulphides (a) ren
5) sulphur
4 rertiltzers
0) Phosphate (6) Manganese
©) Aqueous samonta 4 Bacterts
(© tron, soc, copper, manganese 5 Cl
Spanien:
(a "snatl esga
®) tae
+ Manet from Bucks at al. (1979).

Ie is recomended that a complete water analysis be conducted
before a syste In Gasigned in order to allow for treatment to improve
water quality before It reaches the small openings. It snouls ba eps
in ming that thers can be large fluctuations in uater quality during a
single irrigation cycle, especially if surface water 1s used. There
fore, a series of analyses Should be taken. This series will disclose
water quality variations and also indicate how parcicular pieces of
Squipment will perform during certain times of the year.

The analysis needed will vary with each situstion but localized
irrigation systems are expensive and the cost of analysis 1s so small
compared to the total investment that all the standard tests in Table
35 2houla be completed.

Table 2) STANDARD WATER QUALITY TESTS NEEDED fOR DESIGN AND OPERATION OF
LOCALIZED (DRLF) IRRIGATION SYSTRNS.
I. Major laorgeatc Salts (see Table 1) 8. Micro-organtsms
2. Mardaess’ 9. tron
3. suspended selsda 10. Dissolved Oeygen
4. Total Dissolved Solids (os)! 11. bydrogea Sulphide
5. 50D (Btological Oaygen Demand) 12. Iron Bacteria
6. GOD (Cheated Oxygen Demand) 15. Selphste Reductog Bacteria
7. Organtes and Organte Mater
A calculated vale from analyses included fn Table 2.

For surface water, particular sttention should be given to tests
1-4 as the major problems usually occur from suspended material or
chemical deposits. it is recommended, however, that tests 5-8 be
Tncluded an 4 check, especially IL wastevater in suspected in the water

--- PÁGINA 115 ---
ETN

supply. When groundwater is uses, tests 1-¢ and 3-13 are considered to

Bea Rininum, ‘especially 1 bu 31.0 5/2.

Thees is not enough experience with localized (crip) ircigation
systons’ to predate vith precision it of xen clogging Lrobiens wil)
SEs o Given waco. Yxperionce Gained so. fat, However, does alos
Us to ‘prepare a relative scale fer Situations nor ciosging problems
Bay ‘Scdur due £0 water quality. Table 24 prasents a Eifse sppronimation
SE potential prosiens Bit. shouls nos ba weed to Drovise fin oriverie;
Cacher, situltions whic” indicate S1imt fo Severs potential for
Tontrictions may need a tenting bLograene 0 dovormine thy economics of
Sout Lona that ust be considered. A Faring of no Fasteiotion may aloe
develops ‘probles but ‘tno cuts of 0LvEnG the problem are weually
VIER ene Cazaniliey or Tre faated agriculture.

Tab 20 INFLUSNCE OF MATER QUALITY ON TH: POTEVCLAL TOR CLOGGING PROILENS I

LoGALLERD (OKLF) ALCATION Sains

roca proton pemes esses of Tevceiceion on ths

fal Probl i ane © Sight to Moderate Severe

war
Suspended satsds wn em 50-100 ™
ental
- 0 70-0 rr)
Blasotvea sotsas wn CMe dow oo
Hangrases [7 ES He
Troe! wn ol pA hi
iydrogen sulphide RE SR +3 $3}
Hotogscal —
Bactertal populations mmper/al U0 0CO 0000-30000 530 000

htapeed from Nakayama (1980),

? While restrictions in use of localized (driz) irrigatios systems aay not occur at
These magunese Coocencrarions, Lest Couieities ay occur a Jover concenerations
[eset

Iron concentrations >3.0 ag/L aay canes sucritisnal dabalances Ln careatn crops
[egtrtin

The chiof cause of clogging fa solid particles in suspension,
but this is also the easiest piosiee tc salve. Suspended artistes. ars
mont “Troquent in BUEEace water BU car 4180 Cour In SrOLNGWCEE from
Zens ana silt pumped fran wells, Suspended parsicles ‘Sonsise of soil
farticion "of afiteront slumn, Line carbonates: solid material wasted

io canals, ‘algae ans scoled materia from eservairs. Particles
heavier than water can be fliiered or settled sur. The oldest and

Cheapest method is sedimansalion Sut alt £ay not provide. the con:

Siatent quality assed Filtration is more Talisbie’ amd consists of

Sctoaning oF pAssage thaw a tuitablo medium, Aorasily graded sand:

Screening alone. is. not adequire to revert Clogging in ‘ail cases. a

Small particles may still got Ehoudh tas screens. Various screening

Bateridls and Hilthcs ars availble as well as now exitier desione

Some” of which are self clesnirg ma ‘hese Greatly reduce the PLoIging

Razaca:

--- PÁGINA 116 ---
- 102 -

Another cause of clogging is chemical precipitation of materials
such as lime (Cac0)) and phosphates (Ca,(?0,):). Normally this is
Gradual and difficult to locate. High temperatures or high ph are
Geuslly part Of the precipitation problem. Precipitation can result
Fron an ‘excess of calcium Or magnesium carbonates and sulphates, or
fron iron which ia in the ferrous form but hen in contact with oxygen
§370xiaiz0d to the insoluble ferric form (reddish-brown precipitate):

The tendency of a water to cause calcium precipitation can bo
predicted although there Ls no proven prectical method to svaluate how
Eerious the problem will be since it Goponds upon many factors. A First
approximation of the calcium precipitation can be made using the
Saturation index of Langelior which simply says that upon reaching the
Caloiun saturation point in the presence of Bicarbonats, lime (CacO:)
il] precipitate from the solution. Tho caturation index is defined as
The actual pi Gf the water (pha) minus he theoretical ph (pic) that
the water could have If in equilibrium wiih Caos.

Saturation Index = pHa - pHc as)

Positive values of the index (pHa > pHe) indicate a tendency for
Caco, to precipitate from the water whereas negative values indicate
thatthe vator will dissolve Cac. The value of pHa is obtained from
Taboratory Gata, while phe is estimated using the procedures described
15 Table 25. Al) water ‘having positive valuos should bo considered as
potential problem water [or use through drip systems and the need for
Preventative measures should be conaidorsd in Gesign. For oxample, an
Treigation water with a measured pi Of 7.7, Ca = 3.65 me/l, HCO = 3.80
me/1 and total salts of 8.23 me/l (Ca + Wg + Na) Vill have a theoroti-
ai pn of 704, Giving a saturation index of +0.3, which indicates a
Possibility of carbonate (line) precipitation. This may or may not
Feault ina plugging problem but LE tho pi is adjusted to 7.0 by acid
addition, the saturation index becomes -0.4 and carbonate precipitation
Should not Gccue. From Table 24, a problem is much moro likely at
measured ph greater than pi = 8.0; this is the DH of water close to
“equilibrium with finely ground Limestone (Cac0y).

Iron is moro difficult to evaluate for ite clogging potential as
it is frequently a contributor to other provlems, especially those of
iron bacterial slime. The limitation given In Table 21 of 5 3/1 should
be considered a maximum for Grip irrigation systems but, in practical
Varma, a value above 2.0 may be near maximum since filtration costs
becont excessive above this Iimit. h corcenteation of 0.5 3/1 should
be considered a potential problem if tannin-like compounds (often in
acid waters) or total Aulphides exceed 2 mg/l. The combination of the
fio normally produces undesirable slime growtns.

To prevent iron precipitation in lines or at the emitters iron
should be precipitated and filtered out beforo it enters the irrigation
System. In order to LLItor out the iron, it muse First be oxidized to
She ineolunie form, usually by chlorination, to a residual of 1 mg/l
Chlorine. An alfofnativo method i aeration in an opon pond or by
Thject ion of air into the water supply by mechanical means. This causes
oxidized iron to precipitate. Thon it can bo filtered and removed
Safors the water enters the irrigation line. Both are expensive and
TEficult processes and the practicalit; of treatment plus filtering
Should bo evaluated.

the most offective methoa of proventing problems caused by
procipitation of calcium Carbonate 15 to control the pH or fo clean the
Sinton periodically with an acid in order Lo prevent deposits building

--- PÁGINA 117 ---
Sa -
nabte 25 PROCEDURE FOR CALCULATION 08 pac?
P= GK, = pe) + pon + pO)
PBR i hctond from th cocemsaton of Ga +e + edn mh | Oisned
55a 50 obtained from the Ca fn nef) fom
BALK) 1s obtained from the concentration of CO, + HCO, in me/1 ( naiyase
Concescracton
Guert) oes = oe son scan)
0.08 1c we ww
pr} pi is io
part pd pit px]
30 ie io 3
pd pd 5 x)
0% pd se 3
pd ic 3 3
ped po Se 3
bert po 5 3
ji] po 33 px]
112s po 3 px)
i put pi pd
pe} p=] So pad
pa} pe py px!
pd i xd pd
oo i pe in
pei} pd pe be]
ped i py pr
pd i po pn
10100 i i io
1% i i i
foe i pa pe
3.50 i Io es
Soi i i i
30100 ps i i
00 i it i
Fcocedars teem Sakayana (1952),
phe 1s a theoretical, calculated pH of the irrigation water.
up to levels whore clogging might occur. A common practice song those
Gen proniens 1x to {niet hydrochioric (meriacic) of sulpmoric scia
Into Th Slkon perionicatly” The system may need to bo flusnen ar
ofton as onée a weer.

The acid can bo addod to the system on a continuous basis if the
propien’ is ‘Tolers enough bus ents 1% expensive anid 3ifficuis snd She
SEIT dingorous 5 hanaic: 1543 ocomtended that acia be added at a
Tito 55 maintain ph clove 55 uc not loser than pF 6.5. Sulphur burners
Fave Siro heen uken to acirity the nuoply wards for arin’ rrigetion:
Tho 50. ‘Formed 16 put into tho irrigation wales by means Of varer Spray
rubbacs That fork 5,50, and #50. acieitios solicions.

I foreilinors aro injected into tho irrigation water, possisic
procipitae fin due So water Chialotry must bo Corsiderod: bof xampie;
LE Ces (en) omcanteasain in pebater than 6 me/1, most pocpnoTas
fortiiirers wid) Caves Close na of enitiors: Clouging Is more sovers 10

--- PÁGINA 118 ---
- 208 -
bicarbonates are high (5 me/1). Anhydrous or 1iguid ammonia should not
be applied through those systems as the ammonia can increase ph of tno
water to values above 11 and Cause rapid Precipitation of CatOr which
Clogs the entire system.

Many cases of clogging have occurred from biological growths
inside the irrigation lines and openings. Theme are caused by small
quantities of micro-organisms such ag sigs, Slimes. fungi, bacteria,
Enails, and miscellaneous larvac. Thoso problems are difficult to
cvaluate ‘and prevent since thoy are affected by a number of factors,
Such problems occur whon the water contains organics and iron of
hydrogen sulphide, Ono Of the most Severe forms of ¢l0gging is caused
by a white, gelatinous sulphur slime associated with sulphur bacteria.
Another common one 1a tho brown slime mans caused by filamentous iron
bacteria. These grow rapidly in water Containing as low as 0.4 me/l
i7on and are especially troublesome in water containing soluble dark,
Lannin-like organics which act as a readily available fod source fof
the bacteria. Algae and other growths can cause problems especially if
their growen rates are enhanced by excess nutrient levels (nitrogen or
phosphorous). The use Of vastewator in localized (drip) irrigation
Systems would be especially troublesome since effluents normally
Contain nutrients, dissolved organics, and micro-organisms, all of
Which may increase the potential For clogcing problems.

Chemical treatment (chlorine) is ono of the most effective
methods for controlling biological growths but is costly and requires
Close and careful management ¢o use safoly. Chlorine kills the organ-
Toa, oxlgizes the organic matter and may require Filtering or flushing
of the system to clear the organic matter. Continuous chiorine injec
ion is an excellent method but may be too expensive for most agricul-
tural use. Its officioncy is related to the pH Of the Water, with more
Chlorine. roguired at higher pH. Table 26 Gives examples of typical
Chlorine dosages used in localized (drip) irrigation systems to inhibit
microbial Grouch, slime ana bacterial development.

Table 26 CHLORINE DOSAGES #OR CONTROL, OF BIOLOGICAL GROVTHS '
Probien Dosage
Agee 0.51.0 =w/1 continuous ox 20 sg/1 for 20 atauces
Hydeogen Sulputde 3.59.0 tines the hydrogen sulphide content (ag/1)
p— 1.0 m/1 but varien vin bactertal cont
Sltnes 0.5 mg/1 continuous

+ Sata trom Versstzes asd Jobling (1960).

5.6 CORROSION AND ENCRUSTATION

5.8.1 Metal Corrosion

Most corrosion and sncrustation problems are associated with
Groundwater. Groundwater varies significantly in composition (rom one
ices to another but most types are at least mildly corrosive to iron
and ‘somo will ovoroly attack it and even affect more resistant motals.
Corrosion is basically an electrolytic process which attacks and
Giiaclves auay a metal mutface. The rate at which corrosion procesds
oponds upon ‘a varioty of chemical equilibrium reactions oa well as

--- PÁGINA 119 ---
ws -
upon certain physical factors suck as velocity, temperature and
pressure. Wost' corrosion praclors ace aswoeiatec with iow salinity
Water: most encrustation problems are 4ssotiated with higher salinity
Groundwater.

Other types of groundwater nay cause unusual amounts of organic
and inorganic Matorials to be Gepotited on 6auiEment ant in wells.
These deposits may restrict water passage in well sereencs pipelines.
and outlets. Although an endless varioty of Gissolved and suspended
Solids can cause such Sffects, ths more common ones are sand, silt.
Carbonate deposition, iran, ant biological growtns.

Corrosion and oncrustation processes are complox and inter-
active. For this reason, no $1ngle ses: or index 13 an infallibie
indicator of the potential life Sf aquipen:. Nevertheless, certain
accelerated performance tests and caenical indicators have proved ro be
of considerasle value in 51aAning equipment needs and evaluating
perfornance.  Conslderirg tho high cos: OF well construction ang
Yrrigation ‘equipment, it is desirable to spply all known indicator
EORES and £0 use the most conservative (safest) in planning for fii
scale development. Because of the varyin: nature of the tests, it is
suggested that reputable reference Guides bo user fo make the apprai.
sal. One of the latest guides Ls Corrosion and Ercrustation in Water
Wells: A Pield Guise for Assessment, Pradicticn and Control (Clarke
1980). Although nis deals with water wells, the predictive tools coulda
also be applicable to ireigation equipment.

5.8.2 concrete Corrosion

Groundwater and cortals sucface water supplies can be corrosive
to concrete. This corrosion may aifect the life of an irrigation canal
Lining but the =ost frequent corrosion occurs when groundwater 18
pumped through a closed concrete pipeline.

There are three geroral tyses of corrosion that mignt result in
deterioration in concrete canals and pipelines wnon they are exposed to

TYPE 1: teaching corrosion is when Line in concrete i dis-

Solved by Tou salinity Sof: water (10 carbonate haransss) on by

water that contains free carbon dioxide (carbonic acid). This

Eype of Corrosion doss not do excessive damage to good concrete

but can be pronounce: Ln poce quality, Porous concrete. The rate

Of this type of corrosion in danse concrete is very siow to non

existent but can be relatively rapid in jointing materials.

For water containing carboric acid (E2CO1), the ph may vary from

405 Wo 7.9, thezetore, 3k aNouls not be a sole indicator, A

Characteristic of low Salinity water is iat even though the pi

may vary botwsor 7.0 and 7.9, the water may still ateack

concrete. This is because <t nay be ’lime dissolving’ instead of
lime gepositing. Therefore, it 1s advisable to check the

Langolior Saturation Index of the water (seo Seceion 5.7 and

Equation 18). If the saturation index is negative, then some

attack on concrote 1a likely but the rate of attack uill be very

Slow. The Cax values in Table IL may aleo indicate a corrosion

Potential since concrete would ba 4 Good source of lime (CACO: .

TYPE 114 lon exchange corrosion occurs as a result of base

exchange reactions beswesrt the cesiily soluble compounds in the

hacdoned coment and no alksline cations (Ca, Mg, Ky NH.) in the

Water. The exchange products are inen laaced of remain in place

--- PÁGINA 120 ---
106 -

in the concrete as non-binding cosponents. Magnesium and salts

are commonly involved.

TYPE III: Corrosion by expansion occurs from a chemical

Teac ion that resales In tie formacion of compounds which Occupy

Greater volume than the original cement compounds, thus

Causing internal stress which ultimately destroys the concrete

by swelling. Sulphates are a known cause af tnis type of

Corrosion. The sulphates tend to combine with some of the

Calciun and aluminium Compounds in the hardened cement and form

calcium Sluninate-sulphate or gyprum, which causes the Concrote

£3 suell. It should be noted that some sulphates are potentially

Ore ag0ressive than others; there are magnosius and smmonius

Sulphates. The increased aggression by MGSO. and NH.SOL 1s due

to ‘the fact that they decompose the hydrated Calcium silicates

(Type 11 corrosion) in addition to reacting with the aluminium

and ‘calciun hydroxide in the concrete. The action of ammonium

Bulphato may bo enhanced in tho presence of nitrate. Both may be

present in water supplies especially if they are receiving

fhdustriol aston or Funoff from agricultural land.

As with metals, corrosion processes of concrote are complex,
therefore, no single test of index ls an infallible indicator. Guido
Tins nave been suggested to estimate the potential Of a water to be
aggressive against Concrete (Table 27). Thase are relative degrees of
agressivity of water of predominantly natural origin and do not fake
{220 account resistance of tho conorote Lo corrosion. Tho developer of
Table 27 Suggests that sven if only one of the values points to a
potential, a further evaluation should bo made.

Tuble 27 LINIT VALUES FOR EVALUATING THE AGGRESSIVITY OF WATER AND SOIL To CONCRETE"
or — FE —
righ en Strong sex:
™ 6.5 h55 Ss hs
Line-étaeclving carbons
acid (00,), mg as 15-30 20-40 se
monte (84.), g/t ais 13-30 20-60 “60
Magnecion (4). 3/1 <0 W000 150
Sulphate in water (50,),
ery <0 W060 60-3000 3000
Sot
Sulphate in soil Cat-dry)
(S00). ng/kg <2000 2000-5000 >3000
Data taken fron Bicaok (1972).

Further references include: Biczox (1972); Unites States Bureau

of Reclamation (1975); Taylor (1977); and perkins (1981).

--- PÁGINA 121 ---
-07 -
5.9 VECTOR PROBLEMS ASSOCIATED WITH WATER QUALITY

In most countries where there is a risk to health from vector-
borne diseases Such as malaria, lymphatic filariasis, encephalitis,
onchocerciasis, schistosomiasis, there is an awareness of the possi:
bility thet water development projects may have an impact on vector
populations and human health. This is particularly true of irrigation
Schemes, ”Wnich tend to incréase opportunities for human/water/vector
Contact in addition to thelr creation of habitats well suited to vector
production.” Even in the absence of an associated disease, a similar
robles may arise in relation to nuisance spocios of insects which
Cause personal discoafort and can be extremely disruptive of community
Tite, York and leisure activities.

The existence of an aquatic enviroment is usually the primary
cause of these problems, and there is ample literature on vector
Control through "chemical, ‘Biological and environmental management
Rothods. However, there ‘ls less information on the relationships
between ‘water quality and vector production although quality aspects
may often intensify a vector problem and may even create the physical
Conditions leading to the problem.

Put simply, the ideal conditions for good irrigation management
are similar 0 hose which will discourage vector production in
Irrigated agriculture or will at least assist in vector control. This
implies a minimus of unnecessary water Surface, well constructed and
maintainod Supply Channels, Offective, unimpeded drainage of excess
Vater and efficient, economical water Application. When the quality of
irrigation water causes a daparture from these conditions, there is
increased risk of vector production.

there are four ways in which water quality may affect the size
ana species composition of the populations of disease vectors ana
Alisance tnmectas
- by creating soil conditions which extens water surfaces in ares,

oF in durations
- by requiring irrigation practices which also result in the

extension of water surfaces in area, or duration;
- by modification of the aquatic flora or fauna; and
- by irect influence on the vector.

adverse soil conditions, with low rates of infiltration, may
arise whon the ireigation wator has vory low salinity or a nigh Sodium
Contant relative to the calcium snd magnesius content. This has the
Obvious Gifect of extending the time when irrigation water is standing
In the field ang ‘also results in longer periods of stagnant water,
following rainfall, outsido the irrigation scason. Whore the intonsity
of lang use under irrigation ia relatively low, this may sean that the
xposed water surface Is oven greater than the irrigated area and that
the period of standing wator Ls sufficient for a number of breeding
Syelds of vector and pest insacts or for the proliferation of popula
Tlons of snail intermediate hosts necessary for the development and
multiplication of schistosome larvas.

When salinity is high, it may be necessary to supply irrigation
at vory short intorvals so that tho soll surface is often wet, and
Goprossions will always contain vater. Wien salt accuulation must be
corrected by leaching, this may call for the ponding Of water in the
lela for periods of many aya. In either cams, With an inevitable

--- PÁGINA 122 ---
208 -
carry-over period to complete drainage or drying out of low spots,
there may be sufficient time for completion of the aquatic part of the
mosQUILD Life cyclo (usually WAthin two weeks under tropical condi
Tions) and the production of & now gensration of adults.

A probles which most commonly affects sgricultural drains is
that of growth stimulation of aquatic woods due to excess nitrogen from
fertilizers. nis Can also occur in irrigation canals where there is
mixing of the supply With agricultural Funoff or with wastewater from
domestic or food-processing Sources. The associated issues of weed
Clearance ‘ang channel maintenance have been referred to earlier, but
tho presence of dense aquatic Weeds and algal growth also introduces
conaitions which are suited to the development of some insect vectors,
pest. insects and snails. In addition, it makes control by chemicals
Such as larvicices and aolluscicides more GLITioULL, ROFe expensive and
Toss effective.

The use of chemicals in vector control and for tho control of
agricultural posts may be, in itself, a cause of degraded water quality
nore Lt croatos problems for otner water uses. Examples of this can be
ound in the damage to beneficial squatic fauna such as fish cultivates
For their protein value, deterioration of livestock water supplics and,
most dangerous Of all, the Contamination of domestic water Which, in
many developing countries, is cerived from the irrigation supply with
Rinimun, oF no treatnant.

The use Of domestic wastewater in irrigation can ho an attrac-
tive way to raise crop yields, but it has been known to result in
dramatic increase in the breeding of mosquitoes. This lod to a recent
ban on wastewater re-use for Fico irrigation in Callfornis (see Section
8.22).

Sometimes a change in water quality will have 3 marked impact on
aquatic fauna other than the Vector or poit species Of primary concern:
Tis can happen shen water from different sources ib used conjunc
tively, either by mixing OF in sequence. If the affected organisms
represent a food supply for the vector, It ia likely to discourage the
Growth Of vector populations. On tha other hand, If the result is a
Suppression of species which ace natural predators or competitors of
the vector, an upsurge of vector populations is likely. In the case of
a periodic’ quality change, as for seasonal groundwater used to supple
ment low-flow surface supply, the impact may be detrimental to oithor
Vector or predator or both. Experience trom such examples suggests that
vector species cond to bo more resilient and to recover mors quickly,
{Eh Contequent progressive incresse in their populations.

biroce influence of water quality on vector populations and
species distribution ia usually related to spocios proforonce. For
mosquitos, this ranges [rom fresh running water to brackish waters
Salt pools, mineral Groundwator, water contaminated with Gomesti:
GEElucnt and sven to Septic tanks and cesaposls. Gector mosquitoss can
be found Within the Whole range of thoce. proforoncos, therefore the
afsesamant of possible water quality impact on Mosquito sranemitied
Giseasen calls for a coroful study of the Actual and potential status
of the diseases in the muman population, the locally occurring mosquito
Species and the quality characteristics of tho wator, Those charactor
SEEics may in tact vary With season and from place to place, even
Within a scheme, producing an extremely Complex Set of Circumstances.

Snail intermediate hosts are fairly tolerant to water quality
conditions which fall within the range Of suitability for Irrigations
Tne presence of calcium is advantageous Lo the snail whoross a low pi
ia not. There ls often a snail proforonce for a sediment content and

--- PÁGINA 123 ---
- 10s -
for some organic pollution and, where this latter is due to domestic
offluont in the water, the risk of schistosomiasis transmission is
Svident within endemic areas.

It can bo seen that the association between water quality and
vector-borne' diseases is both complex and Specific to the site and the
human population. Even the more linited  relationanip between ater
Guality and the presence and production of vector ana pest species is
Subject to many physical and biological influences. This section has
Fhorefore been restricted to a brief outline of some of the general
issues o be takon into consideration where there is a possibility of a
health problem arising or being modified as a result of water quality
Characteristics in agricultural Gevelopment. Tho subject of diseass
Eranamianion through the re-use Of wastewater Ls a separate and
Gistinct issue on which thors is already oxtensive literaturs and for
nich there are many guidelines and example of national control ana
Togislation. This has not therofore been included in the prosent text,
but the following list of reforences contains information and refer:
ences related to this problem in addition to that of vector-borns
aiseases. Referonces include: Agoncy for International Development
(1573); Wathor (1984); Feachen ot al. (1977); Wedunkin (1982); Tillman
(1981); WHO (1973); and eo (1982).

As a further source of information, the reader may alvays
direct enquiries to the World Health Organization, 1211 Geneva 27,
Switzerland.

--- PÁGINA 124 ---


--- PÁGINA 125 ---
Sm -
6. WATER QUALITY FOR LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY

6.1 INTRODUCTION
Irrigation canals frequently serve as sources for livestock

drinking wator but other sources, Including poor quality supplies, are

Stton used. Salinity requirements for irrigation sre more restrictive

nan those for animals but highly saline water or water containing

toxic elements may be hazardous to animal health and may even render
the milk OF meat unfit for consumption. In such cases, providing an
alternate Good quality supply should minimize the problem.

6.2 USE OF SALINE WATER FOR LIVESTOCK
In the arid end semi-arid regions of the world, livestock

commonly use poor or marginal quality drinking water for several months

52 the year. Tnase supplies originats from small wells, canals, streams

Or “wator holes’, only tho better Of which are also used for Irriga-

ion. "occasionally such water is high in salt which may cause physio

Togical upset or even death in livestock. The main reported effect is

depression of appetite, which is usually caused by a water imbalance

Father than related to any specific ion. The most comson sxception is

ater containing & high level of magnesive which is known to cause

Scouring and diarrnosa.

In evaluating the usability of any particular water, local
conditions and availability of altornate Suppiios will play an impor
Tan: colo, and a number of factors should be Considered:

- Water source: Small shallow wells and streams are more likely
To bacomd contaminated or produce poor quality water than are
the larger wells and flowing streams. Also grounduater ia 1ikely
to be more chemically imbalanced than Surface water.

- Seasons) changes: Marginal quality water may become unsuitable
ARSE Ary periods bocess ofr (a) increases in natural salinity
die to evaporation during these periods; (b) Increased uater
Consumption by the animal due to the heat and incroased intake
of dry ood: (c) very High ovaporation [rom Stock watering ponds
Sr Tanks during those poriods with the resulting higher salt
Concentration: and (4) increased water temporaturc.

= Age and condition of the animal: Lactating, young and weak
animals are normally mre susceptible.

- Peed composition: Dry pastures and high protein supplementary
Fora Tn pleco br previously green pastures may reduce the
S3linity tolerance of tne animal due to the lower moisture
Contont of the feed and highor salt content (Intake of some feed
Supplements arc purposely controlled by additions of salt to
Slow consumption) +

- Species: Variation in tolerance to water salinity is consider-
B16 between animal spocios.

Considering the above factors and the need to avoid any risk of
cconomic loss, the National Academy of Sciences (1372) established
Thats fron a salinity scandooint, 1iventock drinking vator with an
lieirical conductivity (Ew) less than 5 a%/= shouls ba satistactory
Under almost any Circumstances. This recognized that minor physio
logical upset might occur Sith water near this limit, but there was

--- PÁGINA 126 ---
<u -
ante 28 WATER QUALITY GUIDE YOR LIVESTOCK AND pout TRY Uses |
FE I wa—
Ty SY wes wwe
Cs fucetlen ble Tor all classes of livestock and
sovitery.
Tawble for all classes of livestock and
~ very poulty. dy cause seporary Hacshoes
15s Stistactory in Livestock mot accustomed to uch
waves; acery droppings in poutery-
Cistactory MY che temporacs diarsioss or be re
SAULT faked at sire by antusla sor scusiored
For uivescock TELM irers
50-80 Often caves watery fasces, increased
Grete for Foulery sorcality and “decreased seoueh; espe
ally tn turkeys:
Coals wc reasonable satacy for éaicy
Litted Une and biel cattle, sheep. | wine and
80-110 for Livestock horses. Avoid use for peegsant or tacts
Hing anteata
ULE for Reultry Tot screpeable for poultry.
Lari fox poultry and probably antic for
Sine. Consicarabie. Tih. in swing for
Preguine of lactating cove, orses ox
T. Sieep, or for the young of chess
11.6 - 16.0 tlie vector. Tn general, use should be
otded’_althowh older ruminants,
Dotica, poultry and swine may wibsist on
Pe A
oneition.
i. Rives with wer highly saline ater ace
>16.0 So'prakc that Le Cannot he xecomenced
Recomended 50 cnter any conditions.
© iapeed from National Academy of Seesces (1972; 1970).
Table 2) SUCOLSTED LIMITS FOR KAGGESIN IK RISKING WATER FOR LIVESTOCK '
Tama TTT am Cosette
tee am Gem
Pouiery © <230 <u
Swine” “as ‘a
Koren 230 <n
Cove lactating) 15 <a
£uxs vith dembe 230 “a
Beet carte i 5
duke thee on dey feed 500 a
Thdapced tron mtralian Vater fesources Counc] (1969).
* The coleranca of svine and poultry for magnesium 1s vaknown but could well be less
Chan 150 wg1.

--- PÁGINA 127 ---
Sus
Little chance that economic losses or serious physiological disturb
ances would occur

It is often necessary in arid and semi-arid regions to uss water
which exceeds this recommended limit. While all attempts should be made
£0 stay within the criteria sujgested above, thero ars situations whors
12 iT "be" nocensary to ume. poorer Quality water for short or long
periods of time. Table 28 gives guidelines for those situations whors
poorer quality supplies muat bo used. These guidelines have a small
=argin Of safety but their use probably docs not eliminate 311 risk of
cconomic loss. ‘However, with sound judgement, thoy should provide a
Eranwork Within which decisions can bo made.

The National Academy of Sciences pointed out that among other
things, several key items should be considered when using Table 28.
hoy are:

- animals arink little, if any, highly saline water if low salt

Content water is available to thems
- unless thoy have been previously deprived of water, animals can

consume moderate amounts of highly saline water for a few days

EtRout boing harmed;

- abrupt changos from water of low salinity to highly saline water

23088 moro problems than a gradual change:
~ depressed water intake is very likely to be accompanied by

Gopressed feed intako.

Tho guides in Table 28 assume that the effect is from the total
salt content (osmotic effect) rather than from any specific toxic ion.
The fons largely responsible for water salinity are in themselves not
ory toxic. However, magnesium is Of major concern. Australian stant
Garis recommend that it be taken into account, particularly if the LCw
oxceods 6.6 45/n (4000 m/l) ‘or cattle and 10.0 d5/m (6000 ma/1) for
Shep. No actual Limits have boon catablished due to varying conditions
Of ube but Tablo 29 Can bo uscd as a guido. Animals ning wator near or
Sbove these values should ba watched closely for ill effecie.

Tables 28 and 29 are the basic guides for determining the
suitability of a particular water supply for drinking water for ani-
mals, but local factors, cspeclally offccts of cvaporation and concen-
Tration, must be considéred. Thoro may be no alternative to using poor
or marginal water for extended periods; therefore, efforts should be
Girectes tovard minimizing their effects on animal health.

Animals can subsist for short periods with very poor water.
Longer periods will require more Careful Monitoring but in sither case
one of the following steps may prove helpful to minimize the problems:
- provide drains or overzlows on troughs and tanks to flush them

Sccasionally. This will provent poor water concentrating further

by evaporation:
= provide dilution water if available;

- increase rainfall collection for dilution purposes:
- roduce ovaporation losses (various methods available):
- control high water-using vegetation along strewns and around

Tolaing ponas, ‘ar spring sources of waters
R provide settling basing to remove sediment.

--- PÁGINA 128 ---
- ae
6.3 TOXIC SUBSTANCES IN LIVESTOCK WATER
There are a number of substances or toxic lons which cause
toxicity in animals. These sometines occur naturally in water, but mors
Eroguently they are a result of man's activities, including waste
aisposal. ‘Towle substances in natural water are usually at concen
trations well below the toxic levels. Tf unusually high and toxic
levels ars found, this often implies the existence of Some outside
contaninating source such a a wastewater and the use of the water
Should be restricted until the source of the toxic clement is located
nd reduced or oliminated. The common toxicants include many inorganic
elements, organic wastes, pathogenic organisms, and herbicides and
besticides ana their residues. These may be directly toxic to che
Animal, cause the water to be unpalatabls, or accumulate in the animal
making 15s edible product unsafe or UnElt for human consumption.
he National Academy of Sciences (1972 and 1974) has prepare
Guidelines on the sate lovel of many toxic inorganic elements in
Tivestock drinking water. These are presented in Table 30. These guide
Lines have a wide saety margin. They are based on amounts normally
found in usable surface and groundwater and are not necessarily the
Timits of animal tolerance. This approach is taken since the safs
concentration of these substances is dependent upon many factors,
including the quantity of water an animal consumos each day and the
weight GF tho animal. Tho original discussions presented by the
National Academy of Sciences publication and other sources should be
consulted before using a water of questicnable quality.
Table 30 GUIDELINES fOR LEVELS OF TOXIC SUSSTASCES IN LIVESTOCK DNINKING WATER"
Constituent (8 Tpes Tate
(Srmot) a. {im
Aliases (31) 5.0
Arsene (ha) oz
Beryiiiom (he) oi
Boron (3) so
Cadatum (CO) ols
Cheoatua (C6) 0
Cobalt (Co) ilo
Copper (Ga) os
Fluoride (7) 200
Tron (Fe) not nected
Lead (1)? 0.1
Hanganese (Ow) x
Hercury (ng) x
Nitrate + Mesice (00,5 + W.-W) 1000
Nitrite (N0:¥) 1000
Selentun (50) 0.05
Venadta (v) oli
aie (aa) precy
* Mapted from National Academy of Sciences (1972).
© Lnsaf cient date for Livestock. Value for marine aquatic life is used here.
7 Lead 1s accomulative and problens aay begin at a chreshold value of 0.05 m/l.
© lnsufHctent data for Livestock. Value for human drinking water used.

--- PÁGINA 129 ---
- us -

The most common management problems are related to fluoride,
iron, nitrate, or hydrogen sulphide. Most of the fluoride problems
noted are not actually toxicity; rather, fluoride causes tooth oiling
ana bone problems. In areas where fluoride water constitutes the sole
25urce of livestock drinking water, attempts should be made to mininize
Svaporative concentration. If high fluoride water must be uted in
Certain seasons, alternating che exposure of the animal to it will be
helpful. An alternative approach would be retention of low fluoride
water for the use Of young Stock Since this is the most susceptible
2ge. especially before eruption of the permanent teeth.

Toxicity problems are amplified when the forage used is also
irrigated with the same potentially toxic water. The plants take up the
salts, thus raising the toxicity risk to the animal when both the
Zources of feed and water combine to exceed the critical levels. This
Ray also happen with an element such as seleniun.

Livestock poisoning by nitrates or nitrites should not occur
with levels less than the guideline values. This does not excluse all
problems, however, as a high nitrate level may cause heavy growth of
Sigas in’ watering points. No direct Link has bean established between
Reavy algae grouths and livestock deaths. Researchers point to the
possibility that the sudden decomposition Gf 4ijas may produce circu
Stances conducive to the development of botulisa. Blue-green algae have
also been suggested as containing possible toxins although no concrete
Svidence is available at present. Care should be taken when animals are
Uaing watering points with heavy growths. Copper sulphate is effective
in controlling algae growens even at concentrations of 1 mg/l but care
and professional 8dvice should be sought before using it, as the
Solution to one problen could be the start of another.

Not all unusual constituents in animal drinking water are toxic.
Some only cause management problems of nuisances. For example, a common
roblen ‘in using shallow Grouncuater ia the high level of hydrogen
Sulphide. Although by itself it does not harm the animal, che odour
Theluonces the animals to reject the water. A common practice of first
running such water don a Splash board for aeration has proved very
eifective, because the Greater part of the hydrogen Sulphide Ls dissi-
Dated before entering the tater trough or tank. Mater Containing
Bydrogen sulphide 8180 presents a corrosion problen to watering tanks
OF equipnent due to the formation of sulphuric acid.

No limits for iron are given in Table 30 because Lt has a low
order of toxicity. At watering points, iron is rarely present in the
Vater aince, on contact with air, the ferrous salts aro oxidized and
They precipitate, rendering them essentislly harmless to animals.
However, even With a few milligrams per litre, iron Can cause clogging
OF linet to Watering troughs cf an undesirable staining or deposit.

--- PÁGINA 130 ---


--- PÁGINA 131 ---
BRIT
7. IRRIGATION WATER QUALITY AND WASTEWATER RE-USE

Large-scale irrigation projects can bring prosperity to an area
but less desirable charges can also occur as a resule of increased
intensity of land ard ater use. One important change in the hydro.
logical regine is that of an alteration of degradation in quality thar
takes place as water is used and re-used within the nydrological basin:
In addition, wastowator Generated by agricultural and urban sources oan
degrade water quality and sus: be considered when developing a river
basin managenent plan.

oricultural subsurface drainage water presents the single
greatest threat to water quality. Tho need For irainege is often quoted
28 a mechaniss to eliminate toe hazards fron waterloggirg and salinity
in irrigated land. A drainage scheme can be implemented for engineers
ing or economic reasons, but in Sithor caso the drainage water created
by the scheme will contain a Klgk concentration of salts. careful
consideration must be Giver to is dispossl 50 saat the water supplies
downstream are not polluted.

The disposal of highly saline drainage water into river couracs
may need to be controlled in order to meet Certain minimum s:andards of
uater quality for {rrigated agriculture in doursiroas areas. Changes in
downstream agricultural practices may be recessary to adapt ie the
inferior water quality, oF alerna:ivo schorss may need fo be imple
mented where the drainage or Oar sascewa:er is Isolated from the main
water supply. Due to the hiGh Cos: Of transporting sastewater to a
disposal site (ocean, salt-sink or Fiver discharge): the maximus nuaver
OF uses Of that water Saould be made before discharge. At that time,
Gisposal must bo in Such & way that the fiver-basin water quality is
brotected and agricultural deselopasrt is not Jopardizec. All wester
“ater should be used and re-used until no longer £1¢ for use.

Of cqual importance when protectiry the quality of water supp-
Lies that are to bo used as a scurce of Lerigation water is the. utilis
ation of effluent water froe domestic sources or from an agricultural
Drocessing activity, Re-using vAAiowaer Gar remove a potentiel cause
Of ground or surface water pollution and, a: tho same tims, relsase
higher quality water for other Ubon. Rising comands for 900d Gualiey
water for domsstic and industrial aes Ln countries wits highly devell
Oped ocononios have already creatod tio nocessity to re-use vastewstor.
Many ‘developing countries are now facing a similar situation, sepa
cially in arid and semi-arid regions whore limited water availability
Ts"alveady ‘a severe constrains on development.

Agriculture is tho najor user of water and can accept lower
Guality water than domestic and intustrial users. It is therefore
Inevitable’ that thors Will be a growing terdency to lock toward irri
gated agriculture for solutions te the averall effluent oisposal
Provlos. Bacaus wastewater contains impurities, careful consideration
ust bo given to the posaibla Long-term effects on soils and plants
from salinity, sodicity, ruirlorts and trace elements that occur
naturally or are added durirs use or creacnent, These effects are
normally ‘manageable if associated preblems with these impurities are
Understood and allowances made for trem.

The guidelines presented Ln Table 1 and crop salinity tolerance
values in Table § aro SUFicient to make reliable satimstes of soil and
Crop responses to tho use of WaSLOMALOF WhOES tne primary limitation is
the chemical constifuerit, such as the total dissolved salts, relative
sodium content and toxic ions. On tho other hand, municipal vastosator
na aome 3gro-1ndusteial effluents which aay ba re-used for ir¥igation

--- PÁGINA 132 ---
Sms -
Tuble 31 EXISTING STANDARDS GOVENING THE USE OF RENOVATED WATER IN AGRICULTURE.
[Rrr—. Teac South teica FR Germany
Orchards and Primscyleffluen; Secondary? efflu-  Tertiarylefflu- No spray frri-
Vineyarés 5 spray Lerigas ent ene, hewily gation ta the
Elon! no use of Chlorinated vicinity
dropped fruit Shere possible.
No spray rein
aeton
Fodder fibce Primacy effluent; Secondary efflu-  Terctary stfu Pre-treatment
Copa asd nee suriace of spray ent, bat (reise ent with screening
Crops irrigation Thon of sed ane eerciing
Crops for proc Eames. rE
Sucing adil Spray trcige-
vegecables | moc Son sisigic
permitted al treatment
ane chlorina-
Hon
Crops for bu For surface frri- Vegetables for Tertiary efflu-  lerigacion up
in Comsump- gation,  prisaty buman consumption ent 0 i weeks
Clon chat will effloene. | For mot to be icriga betore “hae
be processed spray irvigetion, ted with renova Vesting only
to kill patho dlsintected aes ted wastewater
sons Condary efflaene eles it has
(no wore ‘than 23 been propecly
Silsfors organs distatectd (1000
Sams per 100 aD) coliform organ
Sens er 100 a1
Ga BOT of saa
Plea)
Crop for hu- For surface frei ot to be lrriga- Potatoes and
Baa Consmp- gation, 0 more ted wth rencva- coreals - teri
Clon faa te then 22 Golifors ted wastewater gation cheough
atate Ofgastses per 100 unless they cons Flowering stage
wl. For spray sist of fruits only
Trisgation, dis. Chat are pocled
infected, | I= before eating
Cored vstevater
wich curbidiey of
10" unis permis
ced, providicg it
hae besa reacted
by comuation
Source: WOT
"Brisary treatment of wastevater tofers to the setcling snd romval of a portion of the
Suspended organic aod feorganic solids.
“Secondary treatment tefers to the activated sludge process snd biological filtration
(trickling f11tracion). it may also include recention.
Terthary or Advanced Treatment includes several processes depending on the use of the
[inal product bar wenally Lacludss Clarification, setivated carbon treatment, deattrifi-
Cation and ton exchange

--- PÁGINA 133 ---
es os oss sb ts i cs
rm
in pe
for direct ojied; tian COP Bo contact
Et
HRY ET

--- PÁGINA 134 ---
- 120 -

Effluent irrigation may also lead to microbial contamination of
air, soils and plants in the vicinity of tho irrigation site. The
Sxtént of such contamination depends upon the dogroe of treatment
provided, the prevailing climatic conditions, nature of the crop being
Drrigated and the Gesign Of the irrigation system. Where the verrain
and the crop type are suitable, effluents may be applied through ‘ridge
and furrow systems. These contaminate neither the alr nor the upper
parts of plants. Subsurace tile of trickle Irrigation systems create
tho fowest hazards of any Kind. Hoevor, tho expense of utilizing such
syateas on a large scale severely limite their feasibility. An addi-
tional problem is the clogging of dripper nozzles and subsurface
Pipelines due to suspondad sediments and microbial growth. Sprinklers
Croats the greatest potential for microbial contamination of the
Vegetation ana air.

When considering the use of effluents for irrigation, their
microbial and biochemical properties will have to be cvalusted. These
Values should then be compared with the public health standards, taking
{nto consideration the crop, soil and irrigation systea and consumption
of the produce, and only when tho effluent moots these standards should
Tt be evaluated in terms of chemical criteria such as dissolved salts,
relative sodium content and specific toxic ions.

In quantitative terms, the volume of wastewater available for
re-use by irrigated agriculture is negligible when compared with the
Guerall volume of water used for irrigation. However, the potential
Tmpacts ‘aesociated with water quality and agricultural re-use of
wastewater are so. important, economically, environmentally asd so
Cally, that the need for sound planning far oxceeds the relatively
Saal Guantit os and areas involved. Several sxamplos of wastewater ro
use are given in Section 8.

The following list of references contains research as well as
practical information on various aspects of the re-use of O(fluents for
rap production: Eckenfelder (1980): Loche (1977); National ‘Research
Council Of Canada (1974); Sopper and Kardos (1973); and Wilson and
Beckett (1968).

--- PÁGINA 135 ---
Sim
8. BXPEKIENCES USING WATER OF VARIOUS QUALITIES
8.0 IvTRoDuCTIoN

Marginal and poor quality water is being used in several places
In tne "orld. 10s ule. rofuites careful management to brevent ob sors
wien the ‘potencial problems related 0 the waters Often this water is
the only Supply available and while crop yields may not be at a maxi
mum, “Chay ‘cont nue 0 proviie an scoromical return. In other instances,
Agriculture may have Lo re-use wasioersor from both sricultural and
Than sources. Awareness ia growing taat Cris westowster must be
Yraatod” and returned So. rupploaent. tho Kain water supplies. Weer OF
this Vastewater, while degraded, is ‘still sssble end Gre atilisetice
often Taguces the total volume of wastexater that aust be disposed of
Ultimately. any irrigation projects will vo fazed with this re-use
Probion a3 compotision increases for bxsting supplies:

The following sumaries are of cases whers such water is being
successfully managed and weed for crop production. The sumnar ios are
RoE meant to be in-depth reviews, out point out successful sper ences
and Give references, uo ina: tra reader can Judge and decide whether
any 8nd’ Concepts are worthy of trial in'hih own situation: The
Teaser should guard against directly transferring other experiences
Without ‘4 Thorodgh cvallation and field testing under local oRditions.
Each of “tna following sxperisnces refers to a Specific water uaiiy
analysis which is Listed fn tho taclos Anrox I, at the end of tne ext.
8.2 PROTECTION OF [RRIGATION MATER QUALITY - Sacramento-San Josquin

Betta, USA

The Sacrasnto-San Joaquin Delta in California, USA, is the
confluence Of Callforniars tus largest rivers: ‘the Sacramento River
£loring south ant tha San Joaquin Xiver flowing north. The Delta is a
Vast loviand, freshwater area which is susject +o tidal intrusion from
Eh pacific ocean through the San Francisco Say. Teo major water
distribution ‘systems, tho Delta-honaois Canal 4d the California
Aqueduct, witndraw acer fron the D0lt for agricultural and municipal
Ube elsoundro in California. If Sno wator viiadrevals become oxceraives
the ‘salinity Of the remaining Selts waier inCreases as seasater
intrudes further into the belts due to tical action. In addition; most
of the natural San Joaguin River flow into the berts from the south is
Givorted upstrean and the Flow in the lower river for 4 greater part of
tha yoar Consiate mosly of Irrigation resus flovs and arainags water
nich Sventually Teaches tas Selta: Export of Delta water must be
Carstuily ‘controlled to mates iatlow to the Delis to prevent water
GUETity degradation from Seauster coming from the Sen Francisco Bay.

The Delta area has asou: 230 DOU hectares of soms of the world's
most productive Land. A slgnificant portion of this irrigated land;
Trncluding ‘sv 000 ‘Ructares of organi {peaty muck) sails, is irrigated
mostly by subsurface irrigation. Because of tne increasing salinity in
The Delta ater, thera is concern that Kaize, a major belts crop, will
suffer yield losses dus to salinity. If water Salinity increases, it
Becomes" increasingly OiEFicu t to control oil salinity using subs
Surface irrigation: An intensive Fiels rial was conducted in ths Delta
£5 oatabl ish colorance of Raise to salinity under susaurtace Lrrigation
management and Lo Compare suseurfacs irrigation with sprinklers as a
Bitlatactory for Gf management for $a10Mity control and continued
production 5¢ ‘maize on "tho organic-peat soils. The field trials shoved
Liat the salt Tolerance Gf maite ves not approciacly affected by tne
method of ‘lrrigation as long aa sufficient’ loacring could se achieved

--- PÁGINA 136 ---
a2
to control salts below the threshold level at which yield loss occurs.
Tho 400 mm winter rainfall was generally adequate’ to leach surface
Zoi1s fre of Salts and allow good 360d GaEmination. In the absence of
Sirticions Taintall, leaching by sprinklers or surface flooding is
fesded to assure germination.

An ingortant £inding of the trial vas that subirrigated organic-
peat soils 1d not show the Same relatively constant degree Of concen:
Eration of appl{ed salts in tho irrigation water as occurs with mineral
2011s rabies) regardless of whether sprinkler or Subirrigation is
Used The concentration factor for applied vater salinity to soil-water
Salinity” for the belts peat soils variea with the concentration of
S512" Th cho applied irribation water. Figure 24 illustrates the change
In he "concentration. factor “for the baita peat oils. Ab Tow varer
salinity the concentration factor is relatively high, but it decrasses
32" water salinity increases. Reforence includes United States Bureas
5% Reclamation (1980); Sofiman et al. (1963) Prichard ot al. (195317
na Maas and Hottaan (1983):

B

54
8
dg
HE
i
EN
H —  N\ -Cercemvatn tector cpsumed ie guigenes i Tose l _ __ _ _
Po
a FR Fa CEE
Solty of woter coped by sub-irrigation (EC)
Pig. 3 Concentration factor from applied water (EG) co soil
CaTiatey (Boe) der SubLFeLFation on organ pest amd
in he Sarnia Sam Jomuin Decay Californie, DSA
Greicanea eat, 1993)
6.3 RE-USE OF AGRICULTURAL DRAINAGE WATER — Broadviow Water

Blatrior, OA

Tho broasyiew water District lice on the vestern side of tho San
Joaquin Varley in an ares ther recoives lesa than 100 mm ‘Of anmual
Tolftaln. "THI 4600 hecsare” istrict. roceives surface water. from he
eta hroaTol California” (5Cu 8:3-0.5 S/m) througn the Delta-wandota

--- PÁGINA 137 ---
Same
Canal and applies approximately 0.95 metros per hectare, of which about
50" Dorcont Gomes from the murfaco water supply and 50 percent Prem
drafiage ater recirculated back into the irrigation canals: A ypitel
analysis of the surface water, the recycled drainage water ad ihe
Blended” wator are given in Annex 1 (nok. 10-213). Gntil 1983. this
istrict ‘Gid not discharge any of ita surface return flows and since
1336 Was boon Focusing ali of its subsurface drainage water. The
blended supply is considerably degraged in quality, merticsieriy ae
Fogards salinity, boron, sodium and SAR.

The blending of water nas resulted in an increased water suppl
to lands within the district bus crops arown must be selected for
tolerance to the blonded water. An time has passed, the Quality of tne
blended water Nas deteriorated and the Cropping Fattern nas changed
From 1960 to 1975, ‘the district averaged asout 40 percent of the land
cropped to tomatoes; by 1980, no. tonatos wore planted due fo yield
Tos2es caused by salinity. Crops now grown inblude a much larger
proportion of barley and caiton, both being crops more tolerant to. tho
Saliniey imam Vomatocs. Continged reciroulation of all the dreinage
Vater chuses concern regarding salt build-up. Since 1992, the district
Tas boca Gischarging nour 20 percent of 1th tilo drainage water in an
SFfort to improve the blended water quality. References includes Tani
Us%e 1997)7
5.4 USE OF AN EXCEPTIONALLY LOW SALINITY WATER - Friant-Kern Canal,

San Joaquin Valley, California, Us

Tho Priant-Korn Canal transports irrigation water from the San
Joaquin River, delivers it to farms along the esse side of the San
Joaquin Valley and oxtands from near Frasno fo areas to the south of
Bacraticia, 3 dlstance of 250 ka

The water is mostly suowmelt runoff, stored behind Friant bam
for lator release for irrigation. Salinity is onceptionsily lov with
the Glu ranging between 0.05 and 0.01 45/a which often causes severs
“ater infiltration problems on soils planted fo moisture sensitive
ops 1iko potatoos ‘and citrus. The water SAR by [iaelf is ‘nat high
Snoigh to’ atcount for the poor rates of intiltracion observed (SAR =
we?

For a potato crop, gypsum applied and disked into the soil at
rates ai high'as 10 C/na/year has resulted in a greatly improved rate
5 TniTiration. Likewise, xator-sppliod gypsum administered nearly
Continuously ac a rate sutficiant to raise the water calcium content to
2703 e717 ca nas 2150 boon «Eoctive.

Tn a fow cases, 3 linitsd quantity of an alternative, higher
satiniey well water nan boon available. In there cases, It has been
poseibia Lo use the well water on the Sotato Crop ‘and canal water on
Fhe docpor rooted, less moisture sensitive crops like carton, grapes
2nd tres cropa

The Frisnt-kern Cama) water analysis is included in Amex 1 as
San Joaquin River at Friant, California (sve wator analysis mo. 230).
5.5 HIGH DICAKONATE WATEK USED FOK OVERHEAD SPRINKLER IRRIGATION -

Denver, Colorads, Goh

Cue lovers are grown principally in glasshouses. In Colorado,
USA, cut Flower growers must contend with a moerataly high bicaroonats
Concentration in thelr irrigation water. Wells Aupply their Lrrioat ion

--- PÁGINA 138 ---
- a2

water and typical chemical analyses of two such wells are given i
Annox 1 (nos. 228 and 229). Although tho bicarbonate concentrations ar
Rodorate by agricultural criteria (Table 1), they precnt qualit
problems for marketing of 3 product that must have an attractive sy.
Gppeal and few blemishes. The Colorado flower growers believe that th
bicaroonate ion is the Cause of White deposits on leaves if they ar.
watared by overhead spray and that it also causes Plugging of localize
(Grip) irrigation emitters. In addition, the higher water pi accompany
ing the bicarbonate interferes with other ion uptake and it ls though
hat this may oven be toxic (tself to roses. Prom Table 1l, Cay is av
deficiency level. x

the Colorado growers do not now water any flower crop with over
head sprays. Their experience is that even with the moderate bicarbon
ate’ concentrations, overhead sprinkling or misting that vets the foli-
age invariably results In unsightly foliage and, in some cases, foliar
Gamage. For overnead misting of cut flowers for market, thoy feel total
Salinity cannot exceed 0.10 d5/m (personal communication, Kanan 1980).

Most growers use spray irrigation systems which apply water to
the base Of the plant. Many Growers are shifting to localised (drip)
irrigation systems which have the advantage Of not wetting any foliage.
Those systoms are not without management difficulties; they are prone
£0 blockage from slimes ang from precipitation of carbonate or forei-
1i2er salts. One corrective meanurs used to roduco CO 1s to reduce
the water pH and reduce the bicarbonate by adding an acid. Growers teal
that tho sulphuric acid (HiSO.) raises the total salinity unnecessarily
since 1 me/1 of 50. is sufficient to meot plant requirements. If nitric
acid (MN0Y) or phosphoric acid (H,PO%) aro used, these not only lower
She pif but also supply 8 nesded fertilizer element (NO;-N or FO, B1.
Those growers ues I equivalent of acid for sach equivalent of bicar-
bonate, None of these acids are oasy to work with but If controlled to
add only what is required to change tho pH to about pH = 6.3, thoy
present Little danger to metal piping systems and materially reduce tno
ECOL References include: Hughes and Hanan (1978); Sehakel (1571);
Hanan (19737 1976).

8.6 USE OF POOR QUALITY WATER - Bahrain

Banrain is an island nation off the east cosst of Saudi Arabia
nd has an arid climate hat if modified by maritime influences. he
main characteristics of the climate are high summer temperatures (Way
October), mild winters (Noveaber-April), high relative humidity,
Urrogular and scant rainfall (average 70 mm) moatly in winter, and
persistent winds prevailing from tne northwest.

Ine cultivated land totals about 3700 hectares principally on
the northern part of tho main alana. Farmers grow a wide range of
Crops. Date palms are most widely planted, followed by alfalfa and
vegotable crops. These include tomato, Cabbage, cauliflower, oggplant,
peppers, celery, onions, and carrots in the winter months and melon and
Sir in’ summer.

The salinity of the groundwater used for irrigation varies but
is generally high. In a survey of 7 farms, irrigation water salinity
was"found to range from 3.25 Lo 4.95 as/m (nos. 141-144 in Annex 1). In
Spite of th high salinity, boron was 104 to modorato (0.4-1.2 mol):
Most farms surveyed were devotsd to vegetable production. Because of
the salinity, maximum yields of vegetable crops are not possible, but
botecr yiolds could be obtained Lf proper attention wore given to
Teaching and mors frequent irrigation.

--- PÁGINA 139 ---
us -

Experiments and trials are now underway to determine whether
vegetable yields can be impcoved by use of greenhouses Of plastic
tines. ‘waits’ (0 hate shou promise {hme {363). The main ‘concern
wien using the prosent Irrigation water is both salinity and sodium
Lori ty in Rankain, sod un <oxiCLcy appears to be 108s than misne be
expected, parhaps duo So the abundance of calcium from carbonates and
Gypaum present Ln the soils. Boron toxicity ia not expected to becom 4
Brobien Since most of the vegetable crops Grown ars sufficiently
EoTerant or semi~tolorant to the existing concentrations of boron
5.7 DRAINAGE PROBLEMS - Imperial Valley, Californias, USA

The Imperial valley lies in the Colorado Desert adjacent to
Mexico and separated from the Gulf of Californis (100 kn to tho south)
576 Vite Colorado ‘River Selts (naximum enovation sbout 13 metres).
Much of “the ireigated ‘ares of the Inperiel Valley is below ses. level.
Water diverted from the Colorado River nuar Yuma, Arizonss flows
Throgs the M1 Amorican Canal by araviey (100 km) before delivery to
the farmers in the Valley. Delivery Irom the main canal to the indic
vidual Farms ls" throuan a very extensive netuork of ‘open, lined and
Unlined maller canals:

The Imperial Irrigation District maintains the system, controls
the water and schedules Selivaries. The Uater is suppliod “oh domme’
Soaning vater is oracred by the weer by written or telephoned request
Toru uonirea Tlou for a roavestod member of days beginning on the
Gosired date tar delivery. for example, 100 litrés per second for a
Derica of three days might be & typical water order fof irrigation of a
F118708 20 ha planted to alfalfa.

During tne early years of development (1905-1930), seepage rom
canals and inefficiencies of frrigation caused damaging water Laples to
Tora rapidly and place much of the best land in Jeopardy duo to
aaiiniy” and ateFlogoing. Without adequate drainage, production
Gaciined and the Euture of ‘tne Valley looked very heserdous.

To solve the drainage problems required an extensive, valley
wide networs of desp (3 to § abrres) open Grains ‘and equally extensive
Snefara buriod (1110) Gcains So control tho on-farm vatvr tables. With
She water ‘tapies ‘under ‘Sontrol ana stanilized at depths below 2 metres,
Teaching to remove salts ana achieve a favourable salt balance becams
posible. Today most of the Imporisl Valley farms aro tile drained
(2510 Spacing 4580-120 metres betwsen file lines; depth of lines in
1553, 7% heron) Drainage ofiluent from the farm drainage sytem dls
Charges fo 4 district maintained open drain and flows by Sravicy fo the
S41ton Sea, a naturally occurring malt sink in the tEough of tne Valley
Charest can only svaparate.. (Salton Ses elevation is abeut -70 me) Tha
Snfarn drainage systems and the extensive natuork of main and allecs
Sor Grains allow tho Valley to maintain & long-term salt balanco,

Farmors soon learned that with adsquate drainage, salts could be
Kept under control and a wide varicy Of crops could be succasafully
eben. "They include aleaits, vegetable "crops (lctbuco, carrots,
Sipirious, biome, sweat corn, ana otmers), fruit crops (cantaloupe,
Saermeian, Citrus, datos, Vanio Grapes), winter grown cereals (bariey
na Wheat) and mehy other Laportant. crops such as cotton, sujarbests
Sorohum and Sudan grass,

Most of the irrigation is by surface mathods (strip-check or
border-sheck, furrow, and basin). 0nd of the most GLLicult proniean to
Manage 15 the nigh salinity uring Germination of salt sensitive crop.

--- PÁGINA 140 ---
- a -

For such crops, Like lettuce, solid set sprinkler systems capable of
low application rates of water (2.5-5 ma/hour) are placed in the field
and turned on once or twice & day to ust and keep surface soils moist
Guring germination and early seedling growth. This daily weeting con-
tinuos for perhaps 10 to 14 days after which the sprinklers are removed
to another field to repeat the procedure. Irrigation following this
initial sprinkling is the standard surface mothod (£1ood or furrow).

Colorado River water (the irrigation source water) has an ECw
ranging from L.1-l.4 S/m and an SAR = 3.1 (see nos. 219 and 235 in
Annex 1+
8.8 NEED FOR DRAINAGE - Tigris-Euphrates Kiver Basin, Iraq

The Tigris-Euphrates River Plain is an area that suffers with
both salinity’and high water tables. This is one of the oldest known
irrigated arcas of the world. River water salinity for most of the
irrigated area is low (EC + 0.30.7 dim); however, salinity seill
becane a problem. Records indicate that salinity problems were present
In some areas by 2400 BC and farmers wore turning from whoat to barley
because barley was a more salt tolerant crop. In other areas of tho
Plain, salinity problems were delayed until avout 100 BC (Jacobsen and
Adams 1958) Barly irrigators apparently understood the advantages of
Irrigation but did not understand tho neve For aroawide drainage.

Most of the Tigri-Euphrates Plain today is severely troubled
with both salinity and high water tables. Since the natural water
Guality of both tho Tigris and the Euphrates has boon excellent,
Salinity Should normally not be a problem (ses water analyses nos. 164
and 166 in Amnox 1). Hovover, with inadequate drainage and the result-
ing nigh water tables that developed, there was no way to control and
permanently loach any significant portion of the salts being applied in
Pho Lrrigation water. Salts Slowly eccumulated and productivity
declined. Drainage and reclamation projects are now boing implemented
and the area will no doubt again become & very productive agricultural
Grea (bicleman 1363).

5.9 WIGH SALINITY WATER USE - Arizona, USA

The State of Arizona has very little surface water for irriga-
tion use and must rely on well water pumped from the underground water
tavle, much of which is relatively saline. The Safford Experimental
Station of the University of Arizona ib a principal rosearch facility
in'this State for developing ways to utilize higher salinity irrigation
wator under a hot, dry (arid) climate. Soils on the experiment station
are’ clayey and saline. The rounduater used for irrigation during tho
Cropping season rangos in quality from BCw = 3.1-3.5 GS/m and an SAR =
Teh." 221 in Annex 1). Crop yields reported from tests conducted ac
the station with Cotton, barley, Sugarboots and safflower aro reportes
in Table 33. These yiolds are alse compared with statowido averages. In
most cases, ‘the yielus from the experimental trials equal or exceed the
average yield for these crops grown on commercial Larms throughout

Red Mountain Farm, a commercial farm near Dateland in southwest
Arizona, usc Well wator ranging in sa: inity (Cw) from 3-11 ds/m.
Soils are sandy. A Survey of four fields conducted In 1982 indicated
that three of the fislds (¥iold Nos. 4, 10 and 14) were irrigated from
a single canal receiving water Lrom wells ranging in salinity (ECw)
Fron 3-8 ds/m. Tho fields wor planted to cotton and germinated using
water [rom the lower salinity wells with alternate furrow Irrigation:

--- PÁGINA 141 ---
“az -
Tae 33 SELECTED CROP YIELD FROK THE SAFFORD EXPERDENT
STATION AS COMPARED TO AVERAGE FARM YIELDS!
crop viens Statovide Average
Cotton a9 1238 kg/ha 1120 kg/ha
Barley Jit 417 kee rage)
Sorghia (1971) 7820 kg/ha wz kg/ha
Sugarbess (1972) 56.0 t/ha 36.7 t/a
+ prom ure ee al. (1384).
Table 30 RED MOUNTAIN FARNS LIN COTTON YIELDS (kg/ha)
TT)
. 0 “ 2
Replication 1 1507 1076 1022 102
2 1668 1076 07 fre
3 133 1 07 re
‘ 197 557 200 2076
Average Tor 95 we ore
Statewide Average
Chana) _—
Aorlied ater Saltasty

Cec, esim) 62 ws wo Jr
+ bron duce ee al. (1380).

Irrigation after germination was with water from all wells. Seasonal
average salinity Of the water used and lint cotton yicld 16 given in
Table 34 "for cach field

The fourth field (Field No. 29) was also planted to cotton but
gorminatod and grown on well water with ECw = lI d/m. Yield of lint
Sotton for f1a14 25 is also included in Table 34.

From Tablo 4, a water of ECw * 6.2 dS/m should be capable of
producing a botter than 90 percent yield and a water of ECu - 11 ds/m
Should be capable of At least a 30 percent yield. On that basis, a full
lela from field 4 would be about 1300 ko/na and from fisld 39 about
$200" kama. Both these projected maximum yields are approaching
Zeported Goa near maximum Lint cotton yield rom other areas whors
There are mo limiting factors to production (2300-2500 kg/ha of lint
cotton)

8.10 USE OF AGRICULTURAL DRAINAGE WATER FOR PRODUCTION OF SELECTED

CROPS. ~ Tnpor ial Valley and San Joaquin Valloy, California, USA

Tn cortain areas of Toth the Tmporial Valley and San Joaquin
Valley of California, an existing high water table (less chan 1i
metred) must bo controlled and stabilized in order to achiove nd
Baintain sccoptablo yields of adapted crops. Covered tile drain lines

--- PÁGINA 142 ---
ms -
have been installed at abost 2 metres depth with distances between
Lines varying from 30 to 120 metros. Drainage water is collected in
open drain ditches and flows downslope to an acceptable disposal area.

Collection ang transport to a distant disposal area is costly
2nd, in Some cases, wasteful of a valuable resource - the wastewater
itsole. Only when {t is no longer usasle should Lt Go to a disposal
site. Typical drairage water is relatively salty (ECaw = 3 to 6+ dorm),
contains approciable boron (B = 3 to 10+ na/1) and has a relatively
high sodiun hazard (Sak = 5 to 200).

Tcials are now underway to tes: tho feasibility of using this
highly saline drainage wazer for production of selected crops. To date
it” seems entirely feasible co use much of this drainage wastewater to
produce yet arcther crop. By this mears, tne final volume of unussble
wastewater will bo reduced, requiring loss extensive transport and
Sisposal facilicies.

Serategies aro beirg field tested for use of saline (brackish)
Grainage wator for irrigation of selected salt tolerant crops while
Stil] Stelving to maintain full production potential of the land being
50 irrigated. Two €ield tests aro unocway = one in San Joaquin Valley
Westside (Lost Allla area) star-ed in 194; the oiner, in the laper ial
Valley, startes in 1952 (Oster ard oases 1983).

In the San Joaguin Valley test, a sotion crop was germinated and
50001ings established using California acuosuct water (Ew = 0.5 d5/mi
SAR = 203). Afcor this early pericd, very saline waser (ECw = 7.8 G&/m;
SAR = 17) bas used (nos. 216 ‘ard 217 in Ataox 1). The 1952 cotton lint
yield (the fourth you Of the test) wes 1290 kg/ha as compared co 1570
Ka/ha produced using only tho low salt canal water. When only the
saline ater was used for bon gerinazion an productions Lint yiela
dropped to £40 kg/ha.

The cotton planting secs were listed prior to the rainy winter
season and benefited fron leaching rainell. Thon, a pro-piant iirige-
tion followed later by irrisations Zor germination and seedling
establishment furtnor reduced accumulated “salinity to allow Good
Germination ana seoiling establishaent before the change-over to
Lerigating with tho saline waser. Wheat is to be the next crop, but
Grown with canal water only te desalinize the soil before again
Planting cotton (or suzarbeate.

In the Imperial Valley tes: (scarzed in 1982), two crop rota-
tions aco boing followed - wheat, sugarboets and melons in ono trial,
inthe "Second, cotton for several years will be Followed by wheat, and
thon by alfalfa. Por the First trial (wheat, sugarboets, melons),
Colorado River water (ECx = 1.4 ds/m; SAS = 4.9) is being use for pra”
plant and oarly ircigations of wheat ard fugarbeots and for all irriga-
Zions Of melons. Later Lrcigazions of tao WAGat and sugarbeets are with
Alamo Rivor (drainage) water (ECw = 4.6 d5/m; SAR = 9:3). The detailed
Chomical analyses of both the Colorato Reet water and the drainage
water from the Alamo River ae given as nas. 219 and 220 in Annex I. in
the other trial (cotton, wheats alfalfar, the cotton is to be grown
with the Alamo River (drainage) vazer for all or part of its irfiga
Lions, and the wheat will bo irrigated with the better water (Colorado
River] to reduce soil salinity sutficlently so allow a normal sifalfs
crop to bo grown using the usual caral wate: (Colorado River). To dates
ono wheat crop and ohe COLLor Step have been harvested and the highest
Violds wore actually obtained in both cases with tne treatment which
Foceived the greatest amount Of drainage water substitution for
Colorado River water - 75 and 100 percant respectively (Rhoades 1984ar
19845) +

--- PÁGINA 143 ---
“a2
8.11 USE OF MARGINAL QUALITY WATER - Medjerda Valley, Tunisia

Soil conditions and high salinity of the irrigation water make
the lover Medjorda Valley of Tunisia difficult to farm, The Wedjersa
River flows from west (in Algeria) to cast into the Gulf of Tunis in
the Mediterranean Sea. About 40 km west Of the town of Tunis the river
onters a wide coastal plain characterized by heavy clay soils with
T1me "(cac)) content Up to 35 percent. The soils have a very low
infiltration rato and tho low salinity winter rainfall may stand on the
surface for extondsd periods of time. During the Growing season, the
5011s Gry quickly and shrink and crack (fisauros up to 5 cm wide) and
water quickly enters the soil through the cracks uatil they swell and
lose.

he quality of the Med- Table 35 SALINITY OF THE MEDJERDA RIVER
jorda River varies considor- AT EL AMOUSSIA, TUNISIA!
ably uring the year (nos. 193 Caonthly mewn fn 45/2)
na 194 in Annex 1). Table 35
Shows the sontnly mean sali-

Aity during 1962 and 1963. The wa ws

Salinity (cw) ranges from 1.3

fo 4.7" as/m. The 1962 data Sanuey 51 2a

Fepresent conditions of a dry February [RO

year and 1963 a wet year. wareh moa
roy in

During much of the ay 3a
year, the Wedjerds River water June PO
Zan" be used for irrigation of ay PCR
medium to high salt tolerant pune PY
Crops such as date palm, sor- Sepreaser PIR
Ghum, forage barley, alfalfa, October so 3
Pye Grass, and artichokes. The Noveaber Pra
011° conditions in summer December ne 21
{large ‘cracks) make sfficiant
leaching Gifficult, while in T reom taesco (1970).
wintor tho rainfall only par
Tially leachos salts from the
top soil layer Of the clayey
5011s (15 cm). This leaves the
3001 surface with such poor structure and low infiltration rato (high
ESP and low ECe) that leaching the entire profile uring this winter
poriod becomos noarly impossible.

The Government of Tunisia and Unesco developed a full field
cosearch programme to assess the management needed to farm this arce.
The results Of this programme have boon useful Ln Tunisia as well as
ther Mediterranean Countries that face similar problems of using poor
quality water on heavy coastal soils. The main recommendation Of the
tidy van for propor timing of loaching to save water and tho uso of
Cropping patterns unich include crops tolerant to the expected salinity
Bulla-up. Tho management principles developed during the study ars
Cranaterable to other Similar areas. Keferences include: Van't Loven
and Haddad (1968); Unesco (1370); and Van Hoorn (1971).

5.12 USE Ov POO QUALITY WATER FOR IRRIGATION - United Arab Eairates

The United Arab Emirates faced a number of probloms when
developing thelr national irrigation programme; & scarcity Of wator,
“oderate to high salinity In most wator supplies, lack of labour, and
Door farming practices. ine Soil and Water Investigations Unit of the
Hinistry of Agriculture and FAO/UNDP initiated an oxtensive ficld
progranac in 1376 to isprove thoir Lrrigation practices. This programme

--- PÁGINA 144 ---
10 -

has identified several practices to laprove yields while using the high

Salinity water. A sow of ‘hess are hignlinied here. (the rarer Guaiily

12" hows anna 195 Tn Annan 1.

a. Drip irrigation improves Tabled EFT or mitcaTios wimen
the general growin of ON TOATO YIELD (kg/ha)
tomathos as compared to
Eorvow irtigacen tems
tous.” Those ditterances [EE 109 000
Vote conmtttent ropecar Perron dreigutten 5 0
To5s of whether the tomas eno
toon vere field 200000 OF © prow saree sc al. CID
transplanted (Table 36):

5. New lemon plantings showed that sprinkling reduced growth during
the Firat 6 months as compared th busbin, arin and basin (ef1o
Gat don. Extensive leat morn and defoliation were caused by che
oncontrations of oqtum and “ehIorice in the irrigation water:
Tanie"S7 hous tho ‘Sit ferences. in sodium and chloride concentra
lone in "the Lover Loses on trees. itisated by the ous $ii-
Lorent ‘mothots. The higher sodium and chloride wich sprinkisrs
Een ihuced to the aqrorption through leaves wetted bY low
S312 hr tnlors “during. the early rove atssun. Sventuslly the
Eres Grow above the ‘Tesch of ines. lov angle Sprinklers and
Growin Sccoleraced.

Table 3 errecr op TRIGATION HOD o sooL A cowioe
COMCENTRATION 1 7 FOLIAGE oF LON THERE:
(ory veieh basis
Teetgaitor Fe
peal 1 lows lasres Le Tower dogves
ren 0. oan
re px] pr
rip oh Br
Sortakter pd ih
prom Ser G90

cn comparison of sprinkler and furrow irrigated potatos showed
Laproves yield couniting from might sprinkling’ Thors wes an
Sree To 5 Foren and iter saving of 35 percont
due to nigh sprinkling’ an Compared To cay Sorinkilng. Fucror
Se igecion at Tio howd no Yield incresse. onions irrieced
by SPrnRIor at Right shoved yiala incrasses of 15-50 percent an
Clmparcs to ‘Sprinki ing uring che say. The oiiierencer are
Sea in part, 10 Lower Canicity Tamuliing from less lent
Simorption of fom Gone wedive and Thioride Trom the sppiies
tort
References include: Sawa ot al. (1978; 1981; 1984).

B13 IRRIGNTION WATER QUALITY - Lake Chad, Africa
Lake Chas 1s being considered for expanded development. including

incroasca. diversion of the. lake water Lor r7igation: Tus Leno hae

Seas een Sona ieres quite unesusl because the salinity devel in it

Femaln "Talal Tely Tow dha ‘Seabio. The Toke is a and-iocked mink vith

--- PÁGINA 145 ---
no outtlow but a continued inflow from rivers discharging into ie.
ER iriay hie onietiy Sopend on the maencion ‘00 td FaTLAE OR 10
SA)
of WON seat
Nous 0 AY om x ew
. Xu I
JY
ow _
/ = BER
SL J nN
wo) ENRON
22) & EN or NN
2 = Ns
— 3
7 0) Ik
Femme 3 RET
id NAS a
eB Heksion csoswhiviny of Loa Chad trom 36 MCE to 10 cid 1967
yt
Ihe chemical qualicy of Lake Chad and twa of feu inflow rivers,

--- PÁGINA 146 ---
-m2-
chloride. The salinity (ECW) of the groundwater generally ranges from
0.7-1.5 38/m, except where sulphates are prosent and then ECw may even
exceed 4.0’ GS/m. Typical groundwater in the lake area is shown in nos.
575 in Amnox I (FAG 1969; 1973).
8.14 KIVER WATER QUALITY VARIATIONS = Ethiopia and Somalia

Rivor water quality is often inversely related to flow; dilution
Gue to runoff in the rainy or snowmelt periods usually kesps total salt
Concentration low. A unique exception is the Wadi Shebells that
originates in the highlands of Ethiopia, flows south through the Ogadan
Plateau of Ethiopia and Somalia and discharges into the Indian Ocoan:

During a greater part of the year the river flow originates
mostly from the upper highlands of Ethiopia, which aro a basalt forma.
tion. River water salinity from runoff originating in this wppor
catchment area rarely exceeds ECw = 0.75 dS/m and Ls ofton well below
ECw = 0.50 GS/m (see ‘no. 158, Amex I). With good management, such
wator presents fou problems.

The river quality changes significantly in the periods from late
Apeil until early June and again in October and November (sce nos. 159
and 160, Annex I). During these periods, rivor water salinity rangos
fron ECw = 0.73-2.0 ds/m and occasionally ECw exceeds 2.5 a3/m. the
increased salinity in the Wadi Shebelle Curing this fine is associated
with high intensity rains that cause runoff from the Ogadan plateau
Unich consists of rock formations Of marine origin. The Infraguent,
high intensity rains on tho Ogadan plateau food tho Wadi Shebolle for
periods which last up to two weeks following each heavy rain. The water
Characteristics show a relatively high concentration of gypsum (Caso)
Foflecting the rock formations oh the plateau. As cropping takes place
on a year-round basis In the Fiver basin, carcful management of the
high salinity water is needed to ensure continued 900d rep Productions
Because most irrigation practices using Wadi Shebelle water are poor
and spate Irrigation is widely practised, & comson managment step is
£0 avoid using the Wai water for several days following increased
Fiver flown caused by rainfall in the ogadan plateau (Ochtman 1575):
5.15 CHOUNDATER DEGRADATION - Wadi bhuleil, Jordan

The Wadi Dhuleil irrigation scheme is the largest groundwater
Srrigation project in Eascern Jordan. The project was originaily
planned for 3600 gonums (500 ha) but now Comprises 6250 donuma (1560
Ra) Construction 5agan in 1367 and Irrigation began in 1570. The
irrigation water supply comes entirely from the groundwator. Wator
pumpad from the DhIS1l - Halabot aquifer was initially of good quality
With ECw in the range of 0.4 to 0.6 45/n. In the northeastern part of
the project lower quality water was found with EC ranging hetusen 1.05
and 1.35 as/m.

Since irrigation bogan in 1971 there has been a slow doteriora-
ion in water quality. FOF oxamplc, Mell D-16, which initially showed
an Ecu of 0.43 in 1971, had risen to ECw of 0.30 by 1974 ana to bCw of
3752 asa by 1077 (non. 170-177 in Annex 1). The source of degradation
£3 tnougnt to be salts being leached doun to the groundwater by deep
porcolation of Lrrigation water. Tho main sources of sult, however, are
Tenses doeper in the soil profile and not salt from tho fost zon. New
alls in new ireigates areas show the fame degragation trend after a
Tow years of operation.

Salt damage to tomatoes became clearly evident after just a fow

--- PÁGINA 147 ---
- ase

years. With the increase in salinity in the applied water, the present
provles is inadequate leaching to maintain soil salinity within tne
Tolerance of tho crops boing grown. Ihe wells at present being used
cannot suply water in sufficient amounts to meet both crop ET and the
Taaching requirenant in the expanded project area. A lack of adequate
supply, coupled with poor irrigaion practices has resulted in poor
salinity “control. Most Inves:ija:ions stow that the farmers do not
understand the need for increused loacting Sr the methods and timing of
Teaching applications. Other aliernatives also navd to be considered,
such as reducing che planted area to allow adequate leaching. sprin:
Kling at night, water applications for leaching in winter, and select
ing Crops mors tolerant to tho increasing water salinity (Natural
Resources Authority 1978; ant Wye College 1975).

8.16 SURFACE WATER QUALITY DEGRADATION = Yenon Arab Republic

Wator quality degradation due to sequential use and re-use of a
single water Supoly Tor irrigation is scrikinoly Lllustrated in the
stream flow in tho uppor Wadi AL Kama, near Taiz, in the Yemen Arab
Republic. The upper reach of the stream is of excellent quality (ECk =
0.5 as/m} SAR = 1.0). Much of it 1a diverted for irrigation of valley
Tands adjacent to’ the Stream and all drainage, botn underground ang
surface, returns to tne stream to bo re-used for irrigated lands
downslope, but in depleted volume ant higher salinity.

Rainfall and runoff from wurrounding rocky hillsides is almost
entirely’ diverted for spate ‘rrigation of ‘terraced lands above the
Foach of tho diverted Wadi. No Sur:ace runoff reaches the Wadi except
during very infrequent periods of intensive rainfall. Within a distance
Of 25°t0 33 ka, tho Wadi flow grops frem an oatinated 300 to 400 litres
Ber second to a mers 15 to 30 1lires per Second acd the salinity
increases from Cw = 0.5 to near 8.0 3/m (see nos. 203-207 in Annex
in

Cropping patterns for tke irrigated crops change along the Wadi
as salinity rises. Relatively sens tive bears, maize and tomatoss give
way to 'the moro tolerant sorghun ard, finaily, reliance is almost
Gntirely on Seasonal spate irrigation of naize oF grain sorghum using
Funoft from nearby rocky hillsides (Hazon and Sawyer 1979).

A similar degradation patzern can be soon for other rivers from
the data in Annex Ii Rio Grands River, USA (nos. 222-227); Bisco River,
Peru (nos. 127 and 128); Janes River, JSA (nos. 240 and 241); Euphrates
River, Iraq (nos. 164 and 16); San Joaculn hiver, USA (nos. 230 and
242); and the Tigris River, [rag (nos. Lee and 167).

8.17 SEDIMENT IN THE IRRIGATION WATER SUPPLY = Echiopia

The Awash River is the major source of irrigation water for crop
production in the mifdle ard lower reslons of tre Awash River Basin in
Ethiopia. The water has bor fourd 0 bo of good chemical quality for
Irrigation at most of tho sampling locations in the Lppor and middie
roaches, with tho BCw value ranging fram 0.2 to 0.7 dS/m, and Specific
fon "toxicity “hazards are  Jrectioally hon-ox:Atent. However, the
suspended sediment containes Ln this water has been a major concern to
ORE projects UEilizing If for Lreigation ant otter uses.

In the Middle Awash region the soiirent load has been monitored
for quite somo tine ard rosulis show that the suspended sediment con-
font of tne water varies widely, ranging irom less than 0.5 9/1 Guring
the dry months (Decomber-April} to asout 15-20 6/1 during heavy €loods:

--- PÁGINA 148 ---
FRET
The two major contributors of suspended sediments to the Awash River in
the Middle Awash Region are the Arba and Kesem tributaries.

One of the major irrigation pro‘ects implemented recently in
Ethiopia in the Amibara Irrigation Project which (frigates 10 265 ha of
Land through a main canal which has a capacity to carry 13 m/sec and
i527 kn long. Water is diverted into this canal from the Awash River
by means of 3 rockfill diversion weir, & m high and 100 m long. Supply
Of ‘irrigation water commenced in May 1980, and in March 1081 it was
Cot inated that 23 000 cubic metres of silt had accumulated in the upper
Teach Of the primery canal. This Volume occupied most of the canal
Waterway in the 2 ka reach between the headuorks and the first offtake.
Tho headworks included a scour culvert which wae designed to remove
coarser sediment of the bed load entering the Intake gates of the
primary canal.

In view Of the nigh suspended sedinent load and the fact that
this cannot bo excluded at the intake, a sottling basin (a widened
canal “section, 400 = long) was constructed in the primary canal head
each.

At the end Of the first year of operation, sediment deposition
in the settling basin and tho upper reaches Of the primary cana was so
great that it was impossible for the project to convey the necossary
Gnount of water at the requires time. The most GIfficult situation
encountered was with the control Of intake gates which became jammed by
S11¢ building up boning thes.

Various remedial measures were sujgosted to improve the situa
tion, such as:

a. construction of silt ejectors;

b. flushing of settling basin: ana

c. more frequent mechanical or manual clearing of silt {n the
£lting basin and the primary canal.

ALL these measures add to the cost of the project and interfere
with irrigation operations.

In March 1982, an enormous quantity of silt was excavated from
the primary canal from the hoadworks Fight through to the last outlet
(approximately 20 ka), and was piled on the bank. The disposal of the
Gredged material has not yet been resolved and this will be an added
Cost to the project.

The present trend shows that do-silting Of primary canals is
required every year, Which means that water supply Ls interrupted for
50uc 2-3 months cach year Although this is planned during the period
fron Fobruary to April, wnich is after tne harvest of the cation (the
major crop Of the project), the unavailibility of water is a serious
Tinitation to the farms where double cropping and perennial cropping
Systems are practised.

Reduced permeability and surface crusting obsorved in the lows
lying areas and along the lower portions of farms aro other important
£11 offoctn of sediment-rich irrigation water. Surface crusting has
been positively identifica as one of the causas of poor seed germina
ion fn certain fields in the Amibara Irrigation Project.

The oporation of sprinklers for pepper nurseries has been
seriously affected by the Awash Wiver wator. The Clogging hes resulted

--- PÁGINA 149 ---
- ss -
in uneven watering and low efficiency, and has increased the cost of
operation because of the need for frequent replacement of nozzles.

Another serious problen related to the "silty water' of the
Awash is the damage caused to pumping units in some of the ‘old farms’
where gravity supply is not available. The impellers of these pumps
wear rapidly ands on average, replacement is required once in 303
Fears!”

The experience in the Middle Awash irrigation projects shows
that the sediment content Of the wator 1s ono of the important quality
criteria that should be considered in evaluating irrigation water. This
evaluation should enable the ongincor as well as the farmer to adopt
Special management ‘practices to minimise the ill affects of sediments
in irrigation water or to look for a better source (personal communica
tion, Kanaiah 1984).

8.15 HIGH FLUORIDE IN ANIMAL DRINKING WATER = New Mexico, USA

Low fluoride levels (<1 mal) in drinking water are beneficial
to both animals and humans. High lovols (1.5 mg/l), however, can be
harmful and may cause mottled tooth, and at higher concentrations can
cause bono problems. Tho World Wealth Organization (WHO) Guidelines for
Human Drinking Water Ouality rocommons less than 1.2 ma/i fluoride:
Animal drinking water standards (Table 30) recommend loss than 2 mg/l
Fluor ide:

The greatest concern in drinking water supplies for animals is
that shallow groundwater, commonly major source of animal drinking
water, “is froquently of poor quality. Recent survoys in several
Countries have shown alarmingly nigh levels of fluoride in some shallow
Groundwater. For oxample in the province of La Pampas Argentina,
Groundwater contains as much as 3 to 5 mg/l (luoride. In Ethiopia over
200 wells tested have concentrations in excess of 3 ma/l and in one
area"30 percent of all wells tested indicated 13 to 30 mg/l fluoride
content. "In Tanzania, concentrations from 3.2 to 9.2 mg/l have been
Found, vhile in Algeria, irrigation and drinking supplies woro as high
a5 6.0 mg/1. Kenya is now checking groundwater Supplies throughout the
Country to determine fluoride lovels

An example Of the offects of fluoride in animal drinking water
comes from New Mexico, USA. Fluoride levels in groundvater in New
Hoxico are generally below 1 mg/l but concentrations as high as 3 m/l
are mot uncommon, especially Ln those wells drawing shallow ground-
water. A fou values range as high as 26 ma/l. Three selected wells from
Giiforant areas of New Mexico arc given as nos. 213-215 in Annex I.
Table'38 gives the trace clement concentrations (including fluoride) of
these wolls. It la not uncommon in New Mexico and Eastern Texan, Uh,
to soo oxamples of mottled teeth in cattle and horses that drink only
well water over prolonged periods. Tha New Mexico State Votorinary
Service recently reported on 3 Case of animal drinking water that
Contained nigh fluoride levels. their report summary states:

“A hers of approximately 200 brangus cattle had diffi-

culty cating. Oral examination of more than 20 animals

rovealsd mottled, eroded, and irrequiar permanent

incisor tooth. Th molar tooth were black with irregular

ible surfaces. fluoride contents of well water ssuples

are recorded (rable 39). Thras of eight water sources

from tho ranch had fluoride Lovels above 3 mel. Throo

mo/1 fluoride in drinking water can cause chronic

Eoxieity.

--- PÁGINA 150 ---
- 1 -
ible 38 TRACE LIMENT CONCENTRATIONS oF THREE WATER SUPPLY
VELLS TV SELACTED AREAS OF NH MEKICO, USh'
Cot Covi Ulam Chas
Vel Na. 1 Well Nor 4 Wel No. 1
| an——_—
an) Acsensc 0.020 - 0.00
(on) Barium Bx; 0.5 <ilo
Boron 0 oils “as
(© Caimtum <olol “olan pre
(Ge) Cheon “wos 0.05 olor
(Go) Copper oor Coos coos
® Furies py 28 26.00
i teat <clos Rootes H
(he) Wareury <o000z 2 N
Gh Nicker “i080 <010 00
Ge) etentom one peony pie
Gn) zine <0 oars 00
[Rp ————
© < means the trace clemene, £f present, vas below this detection
Tove!
Analysis of tissues from Table 3) FLUORIDE IN uri wank
one ‘animal reveaies the in ag/1t
£oioning. concentrations
of Flubrider Alb. 2000 | souen pire teak on
Dons metacarpal 1300 par | fase Fim Dire Tak 0.07
mandible 2015 ppn. Normal | fluc Selicre hire Tank 0.22
Toor de content of bones | hess Sebiers bet "33
Fanges tron 01 to 1221 | Heat bent rank Bd
bom. Chronic borderline | hes Taek web fe
loronis occurs with | hease sents Bed
bono. concentrations bes | tomy) wens 38
tvaen 1605 and 3745 ppa:
Tha high fluoride contont Tyan since 10
ot" the "bono, “the charac- nibh and Mhiluced (1992)
erboric Genial changes, Manager's son has pieced teeth.
Shi he elevated fluoride Horses iso bad indicarions of
1eets G00 5 Ware dental fluorosis.
sources ‘substantiate tho
alagnosis of flvorica
Soxieonis. Ono or tuo Horas examined had charsctoristic
Gontal Tiuorasis, The family Gentist inforned the manager
SE"%he ranch thai one son nad lesions Suggostivo of fluo
That ou Tios ia, The mignest fluoride Concentration Was
Eoin in water from tho “ell that supplied the house
ard Barn.
The owner of the ranch with this fluorido-conteminatod
S11 Ur Cola have proventod some of the dental damage
Ty subpienenting ho ies Vith calcium, lov fluoride
Dhosghorus, ang aliminium salts. Slakcd Lins could also
Eo 2Bana to the drinking water. Efforts should also Nave
Boor mage to minimize cvaporative concentration in water
ing areas. Tho kay to this typs of toxicosis is preven-
£380 55"be Undo taken, preventative measures depend on 8
Sorvict disgnosia including water quality. (Riobs and
Thiinted 1963 Tijook 1983)

--- PÁGINA 151 ---
EET
8.19 POOR QUALITY GROUNDWATER FOR LIVESTOCK DRINKING WATER - New
Mexico, USA
Shallow groundwater ard other sources of poor quality water are
often used as a drinking water Source for animals. In scdition,
evaporation at the water point often causes increases in concentration
ver that Of tho Source water. Tuo rocont Case studies (Rinne and
Tnilsted 1983) illustrate the feed Eo check the drinking water quality
closely against the guidelines presented in Tables 28-30 and Annex I.
case 1
In early June, calves were weano: from a group of 150
Horoford cows, ‘and the cows wore moved to a 1600 hectare
section of native grass pasture located in northeastern
New Mexico, USA. The water source for tre animals was 4
Varge motal stock tank susplied from & well. In addition
to The stock tank, thore was 8 small saallow lagoon which
Fecaiued the overflow waver from the stock tank as veil
as rainfall runoff fon tae area around tha tank. Wo
Crooks or rivers floxed arowgh the pasture. Whon tho
Cattle were first placwd or. the pasture, they were driven
Eo tho water ourée a1d wero observed to 4rink from tno
tank. Daring the week following thelr introduction into
the pasture, the cous were cbssrved to bo Grinking from
both the stock tare and cho overflow lagoon. The cows
received no supplementary feed; sal: blocks wars
available! At the end 07 tho second week tas owner
observed a large numse: of dead cows in the pasturo.
The day after the lossvs were first discovers: there wers
40-50 dead Coes and an approximately oqual number with
Signs of marked muscular weakness, mild greenish
Giarrross ard moderate dohydraticn. The owner roported
that several attected animals fell into tne tank or
Lagoon wher. attemptirg €o drink. Yusclo fasciculacions
Wore evident ‘Ln many ALfectsd arizais. The nore scverely
Sffacted animals wers ir starnsl or lateral recanbency.
ALL of those severely affocted eventually died. The last
death occurred three days afzer tne first losses were
Glscoverd, A total of S1 cows died out of the herd of
160!
The preliminary alagnosis was nitrate polsonirg. Water
Samples fron both tha szock tame and he overflow lagoon
wore analysed for salts and the sable from tne stock
Tank Vas also analysed for heavy setals. Both water
samples contained voey high levels of sodium salts. No
SiShiticant amcunts of aitrates or nesvy metals wers
found (Table 40).
Table 40 SALT AND TRACK ELIVERT CONTENT OF A CATILE WATER SOURCE
Veter Seuree WC GO%, WW, 8 AF B&G WA
g/l
Stock Task 4370 789 612 3361 0.16 0.0% 0.028 0.10 0.001 0.0% 0.05 0.001]
Legon 21160 980 597 1) 4k 0 WX WW
+ From mibbs and Thilsted (1983).
—

--- PÁGINA 152 ---
Zam
The stock tank water contained 4370 mg/l of sodium. The
cattle should have boon able to tolerate this level of
Sodium in the water; however, some animals were observed
To drink the lagoon water which had a sodium concontra-
tion of 21 160 mg/L. It Is nypotnesized that evaporation
of Water ‘from the lagoon resulted in its marked salinity,
and that it was consumption of this extremely saline
wator in the absence of a non-saline water source which
precipitated the episode of salt toxicosis.
This case (llustrates the dangor of providing saline
water as a sole water source for cattle. The previous
Winter ‘a group of sears had been grazed on this pasturs
Uith no problems. However, a second well had boon in
poration and the winter temperatures were much lower. It
0% ntaresting fo note that a similar episode Of heavy
1085 had occurred in the Same pasture S-yoars earlier.
The water was suspoctad to be responsible for the losses
at that time but & definitive G133rosis was not made.
It was recommended to the owner thet the lagoon be drain
06 4nd a now water supply be proviced for the pasture.
case 2

Approximately 200 head of yearling Hereford calves of
both sexes were confined to a feed lot at the Agua Negra
Ranch in New Mexico, USA, and £0d alfalfa hay and a com
mercial protein Supplement which contained a ‘self-
Tiniting" feed ingredient (1.5 percent organosulphate).
The formula was not an open foraula So the Source of the
Sulphate is not known. Water was supplied in a tank from
aan
Thirty-one cattle developed signs of policencephalomala-
cia; ‘nine animals ied, Tho protein supplement was
Cemoved and no new cases developed. The Supploment was
gain given to the cattle a the suggestion Of the feed
Foprosentat ive. Polioencophalonalacia again developed in
approximately 35 animals and 13 dled. The commercial
2oplenent was again removed and no now cases developed.
Wator samples from the Table 41 WATER AVALISES FoR THE
Water tank contained 1813 AGUA GRA ARCH (mg/L)
ma/1 of sulphate (Table oo .
1). This iS considered —
high. The feed Supplement Tek went
Contained 1.5 percent
fnorganic sulphate’ wnicn, | Ablalinin 126 3
When added to the water | It FR
Slipmats, may nave been | 2° we,

; 26s 20
Snough to induce brain os,
damage. | unfoveunately, | K at? i
brain sulphate anaiysis | © = -
vas not gos in this EP ——
as, mero " + From ibe me Thilsres (1953)

5.20 FERsNO IRRIGATION SCHEME USING TWEATED WASTEWATER - California,

Fresno is located in the San Joaguin Valley, California, USA.

--- PÁGINA 153 ---
the treated wastewater is shown in el ee TE ma
den Ee Te i
Views Ulen several of the tarmers Element, neg
tent of the treated wastewater. Also Ba (barium) 0.008
they feel that little intentional be (reli Bote
because the water is of sufficiently Cr (chroatum) «0.001
gre mellels To fame hhe nel | Giomn,nay,
ciated with the treated wastewater. Mi (nickel) 0.030
during the irrigation season, a sub- Se (seleniua) 0.003
stantial part of the treated waste- 20 (eine) 0.061
RR

--- PÁGINA 154 ---
“0
average with exact amounts applied to various crops as follows:
Potatoas 2 appiications of 30 mn
Winter grain, Spring barley 3 app.ications of 50 mm
ats. 4 app:ications of 30 mn
Spring wheat, Sugarbests 5 applications of 50 mm
The present cropping pattern in the treated wastewater use area
is 25 percent winter grain, 30 percent spring grain, 20 percent sugar-
beets,” 10 percent asparagus, 10 percent grassland, and 5 percent
potato. No problems have been experienced with the agricultural srop-
Ding pattern using the treated wastewater because the climate is mild
and’ rainfall and over-application of water Keeps salinity under
Control. An analysis of the treated wastewater used 1s given as no. 80
a Annex 1. OF interest are nos. 81 and 82 Ln Annex 1 which are samples
Of the Oker and Erse Rivers which £low through the re-use site. Those
Samples represent the water before it enters the re-use farming areas
Groundwater samples taken inside and outside the Lrrigation area also
Show quality nearly the same as the treated wastowator used for
[rrigation. Table 43 gives trace element analysis for tnese water
samples. The trace elements Manganese (Nn), Cobalt (Co) and Cadmium
(Ca) in the treated effluent exceed the guidelines given in Table 21
for protect lon of the 011 Fosources Further investigation is needed to
Getermine whether these elevated levels could cause problems in the
Future and Whothor stops are necossary to roduco their discharge to the
Seige system (Tictjen et al. 1578).
Table 43 WATER QUALITY IN AYD AROUND THE BRAINSCHVEIG TREATMENT WASTEVATER USE AREA"
mms oe wee Gromer
Vartoacar® River's? Riverts) | Laatde® " oucnides
Lo veseaser? River River's gain ares
PE —————
LN (ammontomenierogen) 49.0 7.0 10.2 2.0 2.9
OLN (itrateniteogen) 0.2 py 7.0 fry 7
P (shosphorus) lo ois 017 0s ih
E Gotasstum) 20 a Pre} fr 50
Fe (irom) pel 12 [*] fra) pel
an (ine) ols 6 os oe 07
GU (Copper) ois elm io 006 los
on (aanganese) 03 oi 0s J¥) py
Go (commie) oz ollz on lle ole
Gi (Cadmtom) on om va je 0.02
#5 (lead) ou om 0.03 eed [A
ream Tieton et al. (976)
© Values given sce sn average of 12 of more smsples.
© Samples taken before the rivers resch the freigseion ares.
* Values given are an average of 242 wells.
© Values given are sa average of 58 wells.
5.22 WASTEMATER IRRIGATION - Bakersticld, California, USA
The City of Bakersfield, located in the southern end of the San
Joaquin Valley, has uscd troatod wastewater to irrigate cropland for
more than 65 years. Normal annual raiofall Ls 150 ma and occurs mostly
© the winter months of becombor to the end of Februsry. Because of tho
mild climate, (rrigation can be practised all the yoar round.

--- PÁGINA 155 ---
Sa

The present treatment system provides primary treatment followed
by aerated deep lagoons (2. ha) and storage reservoirs which can
provide up to 30 days Of storage, if neaded, Treatment in combination
with lagoons is equivalent to secondary treatment. The treated waste.
Vater analysis Ls listed an no. 346 in Annex I.

The treated wastewater is used to irrigate approximately 2250
hectares of city-owned 1and. The city leases the land to one farmer and
the lease sots very specific requirements on Cropping patterns. The
present. crops include barley, maize, slfalfa, sorghum, and permanent
pasture. Over half of the city farm land is high in salinity and
Sodicity. The city, through the terms of its lease, encouraged tne
farmer to imploment 3 land reclamation programme that consisted of
ripping to a depth of 0.8 m, followed by land grading to pormit flood
or furrow irrigation. For reclamation, 3 pra-plant leaching irrigation
was given, followed later by 20 metric tons of 60 percent pure gypsum
per hectare, Gisked into the upper 15 cm Of the soil. Barley was then
Planted in the autumn of the first yoar and heavily irrigated in tne
winter and spring to accomplish leaching. Following tha barley, a
Sumor crop Of Sudan grass Or grain sorghus was planted and irrigated
by border check, In late summer, the field was planted to pasture or
alfalfa, and flood irrigated. Soil conditions were monitored until
Salinity levels reached 4 lovel safe enough to grew other crops under
Farrow irrigation.

In areas of nigher salinity whers additional leaching was
necessary, the farmer planted rice as a reclamation crop. The goal vas
0 alos ‘the large quantities of water needed for rice to leach ine
igh level of saits from the soil. While this practice was of fective,
the use of ‘the treated wastewater in flooded rice fields created an
abnormally high mosquito problem. The oxact feasons are unknown but
£1014 studies’ and observations by vector biologists clearly shoved
significantly nigher voceor population in the rice fields receiving
Greated wastewater ab Bakerstiold and other sites using treated
wastewater to irrigate paddy rice. Preliminary data Snow that the
RORQUItoss arc attracted fo standing water containing hign levels of
Grganice. Because of the contern for serious disease problems in tne
383acent urban population, the use of treated wastewater for tha
Ireigation of paddy rico has boon halted in California. On other Crops
the treated wastoater doss not creats vector problems ss the fields
are not cont lnuously flooded and water does not pond for long enough to
3llow mosquitoes to propagate.

The amount of nitrogen in the trated wastewster is about 250
kg/ha per metre of water appl cd. This amount will satisfy tho nitrogen
girtilizer requirements Of most crops. In ine past, probloms have
occurred with certain orops much as cotion Owing to oxcoasivo vegota-
Five growth. This was probably due to tho proscace of excess availiable
nitrogen in the irrigation water during the latter part of the growing
Season. To correct this problem; the farmer now uses the treated
wastewater, with its benoficial nitrogen, Suring the sarly part of tho
Soason, and switches to low nitrogen well or Canal wator in the later
part of the Season or blends the treated wastewater with these alter.
nate supplien to reduce the nitrogen content (Crites 1974; State Wator
Resources Control Board 1981; and EPA 1979).

5.23 WASTEWATER IRRIGATION - Tuolusno Rogional Water District,

California, USA

The Tuolumne Regional Water District collects urban wastewater,
Croats it ang conveys the treated wastorator Lo private landowners for
Trrigation of 500 hectares of Lorage and paseurc and. ALtor croatment.

--- PÁGINA 156 ---
ETP

the reclaimed water moves through a 14.2 ka pipeline to a 1.45 x 10° m’
storage reservoir. During the winter mon-irrigation season, all the
Foclained water lows to the reservoir and is stored in it. uring the
irrigation season, reclained wastewater 's supplied directly from the
troataent plant to 10 farmers whose lands lie above tho reservoir. It
not neeged for irrigation, the treated water moves to the reservoir,
whore it is released to farmers below the reservoir along with the
Foclained water stored during the previous winter.

The treated water can only be used for irrigation of pasture,
fibre or seed crops, livestock water and landscape irrigation, and
cannot “be used where public contact Ls probable, The farmers in tho
area are satisfiad with the quality of the reclaimed water (no. 249 in
Annox"1) because Lt presents few hazards to agricultural production. In
the past, the Only Source of irrigation Water was pumped groundwater.
This was not economically feasiolo for the small farms. With the
availability of reclaimed wator, smalier sized parcels that were
Previously not economical are now being developed into permanent
Basture.

The 00d quality of the reclaimed wastewater presents no
potential problems and the trace element concentration is also far
Below maximum levels considered safe for irrigation (Table 21). The
trace element concentrations for the Tuolumne hegional wastewater are
presented in Table 44 (State Water Resources Control Board 1981;
Tuolumne Regional Water District 1980).

Tube TRACE TLINENT GOWCENTATIONS 1X WASTEWATER 7ROW THE
TUOLOMNE REGIONAL WATER DISTRICT |
el il
A (ative) 0.000 re Giron) 0.005
Af (ominua Pe) He (mercury) < oon
Ae Garnenic) Zoo Hh (manganose) Solos
ppg “olor Yo (uot yndensm) ool
Be Coarivm) Coon Ne (nteral) “oon
Be (veryilium) “om BY (lead) “olo0s
8 (bromide) ols 5 Cantimony) <or
Ci (cation) 0001 56 (selenium) <olo0s
Co (come) <olol Sn im) “oor
Gt (hroatum) “0.005 TH (eitanton) “os
Gu (copper) “ols TH Cehaiiton) ool
¥ (Fluoride) 1s an Grime) <o01
+ From Tuoluane Regtonal Hater District (1980).
* < means tho trace sleasat, If prescat, vas below this detaction level.
8.24 IRRIGATION WITH WASTEWATER - Santa Kosa, California, USA

The City of Santa Rosa, USA, is located about 65 km north of San
Francisco in 4 coastal Mediterranean climate. The city operates an
cxtonsive wastowator irrigation system which includes dollvery of part
of ‘the water to farmers on demand. There are Storage reservoirs which
Bold 3 B-day supply and additional balancing reservoirs are located
throughout tho System. Twenty farmers Use the reclaimed wastewater to
irrigate 1600 hectares, mostly by sprinklers. The crops irrigatod
include maize (silage), Sudan Grass, oats and winter (ood lor Live

--- PÁGINA 157 ---
Ev
stock. The farmers fesl that the reclaimed water supplies approximately
Ewo-thirds of tho fertilizer nutrients required by the crops.

The effluent supplements the winter rainfall and is delivered
under contract to farmers adjacent to the pipeline. Effluent not used
Flows to a surface reservoir at the end of the pipeline for storage
awaiting the tine when demanc is greater and the offluont can be re-
introduced into the Dipelire for use by the contracting farmers.
Effluent in in surplus during the Cooler part of the Growing season but
Gan be utilized both from Storage and direct flow from tho treatment
plant during the warmer times whon poak demand may oxceed direct flow
Zapacity of the pipeline.

Bofore the reclaimed water became available, most farmers were
ry farming pasture for their dairy animals and purchasing supplemental
fosd. Now thoy arc asturing more and buying less supplemental teed.

Wator analyses nos. 247 and 248 in Annex I show the influent
city water (drinking water] quality and treated wastewater quality. Tne
Greatest percent change is in Sodium and chloride and is typical of tho
Change which takes place during urban usage of water in the USA. The
Treated wastewater salinity is Ew = 0.7 G5/m. Tho salinity and SAR are
Within the range where cropping problems are not likely to occur. No
Problems have been Tecorded au 8 result Sf using this water since 1976.

The trace clement content of the wastewater, shown in Table 45,
is also within the Suggested (nits in Table 21. Ono important addition
risulting from detergents added during urban use is in boron which is
Tncroased significantly (State Wator Resources Control Board 1981; Bain
and Esmaill 1576)

Tabte 4s TRACE ELENEVT AMD NUTRIENT CONTENT OF ASTEWATER FROM

TER CITY OF SATA BOSAL.
Drinking water Treated Uascewster
(ag/1 Col)

5.0% (mmonuni trogen) fl 1
NO,oN (adtrateattrogen) 10 9
Total Nitrogen B 1
Tocal Phosphorus - 9
K (potassiua) Le in
3 (oron) 02 0.53
A (alain) cot 012s
As (arsenic) < oom 02003
C6 (caduivm) 0.002 0:00
Cr (cheomtom) < 001 0003
Go (cobalt) < 0.000 <oi001
Ca (copper) < 0lo0e o.0k0
ve Giron) 0.07 wai
(lead) 02003 olor
Ha (manganese) oz 0068
i (uickeD) 0.008 fey
Se Guelentim) < 0001 0.002
2a (rine) Gln 006

1 From Bain and Eaaatlt (1976).

© Composite Sample fox 2 years - taken quarterly.

 « means the elenent vas not proseac at that level of dececcion.

--- PÁGINA 158 ---
a
8.25 USE OF WASTEWATER WIGH IN BORON - Calistoga, California, USA

California suffered two years of severe drought during the
winters of 1975-76 and 1976-77. Calistoges a small community about 100
Kn nortn of San Francisco and in the northern part of the Napa Valley
could no longer supply water to its golf course. Without water the golf
Groans and fairways wers drying up and becoming unplayable.

Municipal wastewater was available but had to be piped about 3
kn to a holding pond at the OLE course before being pub ehrough the
sprinkler system. Furthermore, the Calistoga mineral batms and spas use
Rot, mineral spring waters in their suimaing pools and mud bathe, and
the springs flow more or less continually, discharging to the treatment
plant: These mineral springs are high in boron and when mixed with tne
Tou boron domestic supply, produce a wastewater containing about § ma/1
boron. It was therefors suspected that boron could be 4 problem Lf this
water were used on the Golf course.

At the beginning of the testing period to use the municipal
wastewater in the holding pond at the Calistoga golf course it had a
Salinity (Ek) Of 1.0 ds/m, boron at 3.8 ma/1 and SAR = 3.5. During the
Two years of monitoring, boron ranged in the applied water from 3:0. to
7.8 ‘mg/l. Boron in the root sone (saturation extract basis) of the
greens ranged from 3.1 to 7.8 mg/l, and boron in the grass clippings
Tron tho greens (dry weight basis) ranged from 18 to 46 m/kg. frequent
cutting apparently prevented any damaging accumulation of boron.

The golf greens and fairways were maintained by using the
municipal wastewater for irrigation without any apparent damage from
its high boron content. Conifer trecs, however, in scactersa plantings
around” the course showed appreciable leaf namage (Lip burm). Aith the
return of nomal rainfall (500-300 ma/year) any potential damage due to
boron has ‘been kept to a minimum. Calistoga has continued Eo use the
wastewater on the GOLf course (Donaldson et al. 1978).

--- PÁGINA 159 ---
i i
cs: i
ERE BA
ids 1 a
; P Preize ses zzz 31
H ; $3 33TIFT 32 O33 333
= $03 1TIIIE 233 zi Gin
H LoL LL
g 8 + 3 $3333, 33F 23% s:zq
ER 5 1213s 233 sy: 3%:
Ek 73 3.333% 321°3 IEEE]
Hl 133.3333 313.3% 333
H ER 333 333 333 33:
ELE Ee
: | Sloth
§ TY 33333 33 33: o3id
FH IF 333IZT :3E 33: zee
H 313 2a
§ 24 gazinza sags sex s3a
Fa 33 333RERoir Ezy iid
5 . :
H 7 fi H
- HIS I TO
FIA BA AUS TIS £ I BE
H FREES BEER EL
HES I PY LE ENTE NE FE]
i FEE FE
HEEELEREEREEE RENE REI EE
: ss gsssss sf: 23% E%%

--- PÁGINA 160 ---
ii oe
HH Fi
ii ii
Blog: TIE OEE se YY gigs
HEEL EE EEE EEEE E
; Boss 5:b BE oar Bl sans
HE BEE EEE EE RI EERE
3h @zo%33o 33 o3z oi EERE
H
Sokg oi. :zzo3ro3To3o: EEE
EH h - - " - he -
g BZ. 33 3333 53 EEE
EIT T-R B  E EEEER
[I TH aane w
3 Fl 3% 333 oo oo 33 f 3 uz:
Bobi zz ozs. oo. 33 ois 3333 3
Pool =z i
Els P.3 oo. oF oo. 833i:
FE :
fh oa: zorz zzz: zz § ganas oz
fll 2x o3izosrooi3 EEFER
Sobloizoozozzozroanos oz EERE
H 23 33 a a3 33 3333 2
FH s 23 2 23 33 $2 Ei 3338 3
H B . i
- FREI I H § its
FIRE I EO EERE HFS
H FITS B- BE I iii
H EEE EE A BL MESH
HEE LI EI RE TELE] Friis
HERE REE REE ERT EN HE
HERE EER HER EEREE FREE

--- PÁGINA 161 ---
AEE EEE EEE A EE
El o§s Fido: ER osRiifiig i
3 se dF EP: zzz oziiiiiii oo:
HE BEER ERE EE EI EEE EEE
Sof ozrozoroaro_ oz:ozo 233iisi oo
H en 2 3 13 as 5 282333323 3
TE 2 2:a3c oss o%osisiaiss os
ELT DTD Tiina
Ha 3.033: 33: gEiiai oi
Eb zr osziza oer o3aizzaiaaos
HEY IER ER FEET 3
] 100303 3330: 35333
§ IEEE ER I EE EELENE
soul ozs froazo:oa:o3ossiiziza os
H iz H E Frziziioc
H A $3 0% 333: %3 0% 8333833% 3
5 dada i F334.
, HEHE ERT ITE
: ddadaliy, 3 1 JE (EIEE
FEE GEEEEEIER 9RR 7 dEeligsii oi
BONER HEE:E OBP Yaitiiiigd 3
HEE TIE ET IIE
HEHE EDN EH EE HE jill
HE EERE EEE RL ERE EE HERE
i 85 g888% 33 333338883 3

--- PÁGINA 162 ---
Ef HET
Hop Poiiiogd
FP FE-PE EE

EE £0: 00F PF iis 2 4
AEE TE RELL PUL EE,
El OFF op 3 EIIIOY 7738 fp 235%
B $5 03} §18:1G §iissi i waa
: fl o2rozo3oi@snioz iizizoz fit
: 330303 33533 3 33331F 30 3333
SoRg zz oz, L333, PIII, oz isi
F 3303, .3333, 333i, 3 333:
ol en ::o23anyoz ozaiazs no sis:
PL G5 53 assss s3sess 7 aes
H | 33 3 3 3333 3 33g 3 sil
§ pl 3s 2 3zssss assis ox ganas
2 bl 33 oz ozozsizso oisiis:o3 3a
s 5% 2 2 gans®on anaes 332
EL EET IT fies
if II 013313333 33333% § 3343
: i LUNE NI
EINER FPR PER FE EF 0 § ERNE ES
HITE EES IEEE BEE
HEH EEHHERHHE RE H
HEEER EL LEER EL REEL LEER TIN ERLE
HEEEREE EER EEE EEE EEE EIR FEE

--- PÁGINA 163 ---
i
os FE
if Bras did
A FE] 22 = $3E seca oop og
INES 3p o3y pgy BEER EGOS
: ] id HE IRF BET AE FEE RA
2 | oss :Goz:oriiogannonoios
H 4 13 +s osz nmi gai: torn
EO TI 1333 5313 3333 30%
CR SOSA
HH EE G3oiroarioniiogog od
H 3 33 H 333% 333 2333 oso:
Bd 33 oi: saz
HS 3333 s3:
ERR Saosz 233 23iogoioa
HS EE G33: ER: 233i 3a
ET 133% 333 2333 30%
por) EEE ENE ELE
i wi 13 332% 33% 343i il
H
El M H
H . HIE
H : FEE ERERE I
HE A [EET
3 ad FRakayt Bifyy REEliicici
HERE] iydziiiopyies gaédditiin
HEEL HEN EEA ER IRE
HERR] (HEHEHE TEEN
i 2s § S&F §383 g383% 8 ¢

--- PÁGINA 164 ---
FER ER EO a.
s| f1iREEE .. FREES TE Be
P| figigier f@0 f= og Ef oy EEE
3 EERE FEE ERNIE § NE BA BA FF
H 1 EERE 33 Hi 33 3 IT 333
= f| 23313: a3 T2133 3 31
H
Shg zzz, 3: 38: 3: ois:
§ | ee an a N me ean
gs B| zzz sz x o3azozo3ozIv
Pohl saa os: oz 3arozozo oraz
dF Taer sz of orgs od iid
Ebi zzz zz i 32303. 3:3
Ha - —
EL EP R
H | 33133 23 ER A
H 33333 33 7 233 3 7 333
Pld : 2:2. 33 8 33:3 3 sas
pf 33 3ix 3i000% fii of iii
H :
: ERY) i
HEP 3 PI I
(INFITE SNE A BE A 3
FE TE Er A I HEE H
[ES EERE HEE A :
FAI EO IRL fogs i boa ged
PaHET IE {fiiiidgy ili;
EESSERE EE ON PR EER EE BE oY
i gg38z zg 5 g8f EE Eff

--- PÁGINA 165 ---
B
A EE FE IEEERE]]
i) 8 fides a BF EEE gp vv vow oy
J f| 2 szzss oz 7 saz 3: BREE H
HY 3O8ER3E T3333 %3 0: o3o3o3oid
H
fF zo oz3Eanonoios3T 33% io, 0% oad
PET oamiEe oe annoaoas,am
a Fll 2 333333 3 3... 23 3:33:
Ehlls ossrrasos gar oar opr
gL sz333 ozo: ci 3 3
SohllowomTaizaozo:ozsnog:ozo:j ois
EN
Eopll 2 ossszazog gaz omzo2333oan
ofl oz oEzaszor ozo oza:os: oi onoroi og
H 73232 2 Tas HM 2
Pole 5 w3zag ss an; 5 28% og on
i . is i i
; 1: il
AUT BTR LPS
if dizi ge i 13% HNN
HERE EEE HE IE iyEiieig
Basdiitaidy yp ido pple:
HE EEE EH CELE EER TI fh
HEeaieenaiin lia

--- PÁGINA 166 ---
i ii 5g 5 5: igifif co
; 33 PEP Ree oglizi: Mon
: 32 ERIE RB I Bi 33 33
2 fT 0333333 3snis [RIPE]
H fe SZ %o.3 03% 3 233333 I. 33
i - We ew EEE Lo oe
H 3: 03.3373 313333 3, 33
FE 2s = 28 = 3 3 317333 27 ie
I H ER a ct
HE BEER EIA BEER EEE { EERE
Poll 3: 2g3soaz os3zng i 3% 33
fly 33 323333 33
fll oz: o3gzozoroaozazazzog oi: az
3 kl 33 3zroraos saz: iz a3
Fwd 3: 0323 31% BEERGE i: 83
H .

FA

sl gd FEE, ss A

HEE EEE EEE EH

HEH [EE Ee sf FE

FEVER EEC LDCR ETS FEES RS Ea

iff: GryzegiaijjaEiiic FERRE
HE EERE FE EE ETE EFF FEE EE)
i §8 §§88338 233887 £3 3%

--- PÁGINA 167 ---
EH FREE
: HERES FE
A ETI EEE
HEEL FESS I RE

g F| iF 3333 o3i¥iiGoi i iii
Blo¥rozo., , .zizEozoiio3o:opogaz

0-1 EE EO
=F 1 3 33o:o3I3E3oioan 333 o%.3

§ 0 27 T33333.33%33 3333
soE| zrorozo,oszriiozozs ozo:ozoaaz
fll 2 333 73378 3% 33 3 33 sq:1
8

@ FIl 3% 233333333333 3333.2
Phil 33 213:oazeazoaoz soos ain
§opll #2 3G 33IIE3oaog osoiosoaiz
led os: 3 zai sono: oso. zon
ll oz: ozozozozoszziionocsozorozozs:

CI eo
HY EERE REAR EL BA RE IEEE
sel zzozoroaoioziizzosoag ogoroiogin
PR oir ozs: 23: 33 ori:
Fl IT 7333 s23%8% 3 33%. 8 8.3

H H i .
flgdy $333 E ess sd 3 3iE a:

HEE EASE EE EEE IE IFO HL

FlEle siiiiSiEiacilai fo Laiaia dr

Sly os iim pdgiodEEs iiiiryiii

ARFERSSISE3 5 LIER Err ERE EE AH

EREERTIE I SET EEHF SR IEE EOF

--- PÁGINA 168 ---
$4383 cg ees: 11
HE EEE EE EE

n siz2z 0g Fogg bogs 1 s
HEHE EERE EEE ETE
if SHH sree rea: Pils
g Fl -mmzEozzaassesns sas oe
2k 33323030383 3o3:orofogros
Ekg 21st oztiiitaiao 3x
if $3338 03 3 3333: fiio3
Fog zi iz o$oiryzorio: o3E:oz
fll sass: ssznsia: iar oa
Pop ser ossszigag sap ot
tly. EEE AE
H

gL) z3Iizoriziirigo zoos
a | =

[IR EEE EEE
fll 33x srazazzg ano:
g lai 33333 YT 333: Isoi 33 3
HE 13 o03 rr: :
£ | 353%: 3s 2 3888 3 2 3, 3
FIN" IEEE NA A OB BN
H PE J Fl
Ml 33 3i33Tii TiTiii; ¥ 4 a3
ol Fads FERIRILLGEREER ppg §F
HEREEE BEEF FH FHA I
FF BEIT Glpiisfarerstar gai: 3)
FEE SELENA AER
El 3 Fie: gididididididid dedi BE
HEE ISR EE ERE ERE FER)
i 33g: gg EsEfgg :fiog

--- PÁGINA 169 ---
. HEE
: EEE RNTE

A PE sep zi fp 3 od

i813 FETE BE EE

: EOEEEL,.. EEE og5 0 vb gs
g F| ® 23gildl ese iF sy 3 i
2 3 3333333 FId o%3 ron 33 2
Phd or oszziazs san oar Lo: 233
H © ememmae mas me oo ee
gf| @ Frama oearoar downs
ES SA Sl
i Bl @ osmRIze gz os. 3 333
Epil ro ozzgzsue oizfozio op: gn oz
Ply. 3 EE EER
FH H ~wan San . oe e a PET
I SA Sb SA
§ pl 3 zigssaz os3z oz os: zn ol
5 bil 0% s@piesy ozIi oz: 3: oan 3
H Tosnrzaa Fe 13 3
H i Lid
H . sd

EH Ipod z

HIS EPCRA NEE IE ES

HEEL FT ERS I | A

HE FERRE ELEN EE ERE ER EIR FE ET

HE FEE EEE RI ERE THERE

sl 0EEdsagdie yr Ms dnealii bs

--- PÁGINA 170 ---
B

s3288 Lo Pid
E35 pris: ER PEPE oss
FEET EE BE TR RT
il Giiifziie: HEEL HH
H SI§5§5888 fi: = zipper if
, §| HiFEiEEEEE HEHE HH HH
HE EEEEE FERRER FE... 33333
i G| mzzzzzzsas 333013333 a3
POF iataiiioes ERE RE
[Bl EEFEFEEE PP Girozoro:o_ ia
i Bll sxzzzaziiz Tir 3o:o3oioaoaz
: Fl s3zes PEED
El szziesczil 3%: :o3o:orooaz
Bold zuaaz § 2 Tryon
ER Ee i cos
Ell szizIziziz EREERE BEE EE
Ell zzzzssgass 3333 33IoToig
5 pl $szzzazaa: T8133 3% ong
Pla ziszzassas gaz sagas
{8 5383338513 3 $3 33331333
H ILE I. s
: FREER EEE RFPS PR H
LEE ERE Sep fief Bo: LE
sy 33 dssdsd ERE TEE BE
HEED Bitsy
HEE SEPT FRET EDC FSO
EEE ERLEEEEE INE EE ALI DIRE I
AREEEE EEE FEE FER EE ET EL EE
i ZEEEEEEEEE 88 358 £83338

--- PÁGINA 171 ---
FREE I

| EEE igzziizgog, dF
[HEREIN SEI BA
HA I EA OY I BE ER
5 Pidisidsidilinlis
Fl f:seizzazsiaziaonoroaa
: $133332333333333:2
:
PR Lz. ,ciiii.ciizaz:
El eee ee ae ea asa
H ERE I IE IPUE IE TE SE SE
fh sisizzzscisaiioozoas
El zriiirriziongiiig:
EL r23zzs2azzizazzzzs
Pld sia za: Fra
d pil §F3FTIF3Fr3iisods
PO siEiiiiiiiiiiaiy
2 Ll [RE 22 an
Pl srisziziazaiigia
H ;

H ¥ is
EPR | 3 EE
NETS RE
ARSE EEE REE PPR TR ER Ch IE I BE LH
Blyadicigenecinniateci fifa. iiss
HEE FEE HE LEHR I BI ET LE
Hrnidocindagaia nih
fazibiiaiaai dad HES HGR
J EEEEEREREEEEEEEERZ

--- PÁGINA 172 ---
see

tsi zz]

HII jiu:

| ce: ozs EEG EER

IRE EREEER IH ERRI TE]

iF BEE BB 5 §ooEsy os i iis
Ha 333 303% 33333 3% 3133 i
= fl s33 cise zien i
J IEEE EEE RE H
39%. 033 :a3._ 3:oata :
PR FER. 3 EEA, 33303 i
PO 7Rr23aa33izgioan: H
Sol i zozoroaozozzleotozoiioz H
Ebi s2z 332323: 3:3xg] i
HE 33.0% 3 Goee 30 3.03 :
fl srzzzoraiiioo:oan: H
HR EERIE NE RE IEE A FO
ffi] ¥zo2o:o:o:o3iizowozoayoals og
HE 2 1333 2 TE og
§ 8 rr ziaioizaiiiaigiylf og
Hi | £3
ER sof
Tides m0 oases go ogor ol
HERE ET IN HER DE a EH
HERR TERE HE ES PRC HE
HE RR HEE TE IH]
jlEsiisiiztelaasissgagetaaage int
HEHE EEE RIE EE RELL

--- PÁGINA 173 ---
BOTS potsonteg from ogesciog tucalis (Closcridiim batuliom). Wh affects che central
ses ic eahing SATIS 1 sellin, she] Siero ad FeTLTRET

BORING: cebdtsbiovn dtscoloacion of Loses or scale ndicectng + ntebent deficiency.

CHISEL: chanical reparation of lund Leaving 16 in & rou, cloddy condicion, which beige
Go Smirel wi srovion duiad éry periods and scioks. Snbliraion wien So rein
rT Tr

CHGRSSIS: yelonieg or bleschig of gress purcion of 4 plan, purcicvlariy the Temes. Hay be
aired by Givens Sraaiont. ButFient URFiEfeneice) or Scher actors a ton

CORMGSION (PLECTHOUTIC): corrosion (sf wel screen, pag component, caso of pipes) due co
latialyeie seeds loend by eter fro hich Che me memati oot
ELRCTOOHIE Roc).

BEVITAIFITION: he reduction of sicrate Co staskpbric aicrogen aa oxtdes of nitrogen.

DISEASE VECTOR che Living cransprter and crabiCtes of the Causative sent of + Hesse.

BATA WB: sell from ich sneer 1s pmped fn oder €o Lover he vate Sale.

SHIP IRKIGATION: fora of localised Lreigacion whorchy che vate fs cieced from ube ox pipe
i CR

ELBCTALCAL COMICTIVITY (500): of the saturation paste s¢ 25°C. The property of & subscane So
Leamatar 18 eieetrical charge (reciprcel of fests). (heh for the Sesmprenat SF
RSA Rea 0 2 eherat frm § sok ven sutured Wh sneered 1 8/e,
esi

ELECTIOUTIC octss: + proces share che conduction of eleceriiey fasuces chemical changes
Teaing to soto of meting of webviaeen:

Wen Tl cm Teal Tet em ST
Seley that lesen ph ori

SVAPOTIARSPLIATION (5): cate of water loss through cramapiracion from vegetation plas

FICHMGIANE SOOLOY PERCENTAGE (59): che degees of satacacion of the sold exchange complex
io Ta She
rp + _exchemestic cotton (ae/i00 g sot)

alien excheas capes (aT 8 $91

CrPSIO Olle sets that concats at lune a perce of pypre, fa. calct swipe
Eason ior Th mae varies Sacly, ers. bn Arges sad Beas, Br 5 4 peter

LAKVCIOR: 4 subtance tha iLie Larva tages of dmects.

LDN ACTION 11): cha occion of he rstpaticn ae ecto he oid ha sifeciney
Slat ER lL I CR ls
ona.

LEAKING SSRN (10): chat porkiz cf the rrigatics vate ececiog Che sold tht otfec:
Ciel mune Cho chong snd Layond ‘te 100 avs In ore fo ravene ha ImiLdup of
Saat CTR SE RL A

LOCALID IRRIGATION: ieetpation systems ich we, 1a parcicula, he area of soil a he base
the plant. Dabreia tern for snr Lrrltion 7etems seh S5° Erckle, det, dich,

--- PÁGINA 174 ---
Sw -

LODGING: he beating down of crope by wind of rain. the tendency of certain lomgstatked
Ereminene to coliapee owing to mbriest def ichinty:

DNPATIC FLLANIASIS: infection tn busses cessed by filscisl voras. The vectors see culicine
or anopieline mucutoos beter Lene oC loreal sages

MALARIA: nfuccion 1x hums caused by four different salartal parasites (Flassodiom) intro
Cad inks Cha lumen Sloodatresm by the bite oF an inteCted moequico (nspheion 55.1
rer Rey

MOISTURE TENTION CAVE: graph shoving che relationship beivesa the amount of vater
Ro a oli-metecure characteristic curves .

FOLLUSCICIDES: o subetance that Klis sollurce (gesaraily chanical).
comilions, ©. tron: : . or

ONCHOCEICIASIS: or “river blisiness’, disease caveed by the ilarinl wors, Onchocerca solv
Toe The Yecors wee biathetlios (HieuLivm sp. Sores Mbicat st Larost ereter

OROTIC BITECTS the force a plant mat exert to extract water from ch sotl, Th presence of
ic dn ch aut iuater Tacrestes the force the plant mutt exert.

CROTIC POTINTLAL: the addictonsl smorey repsired to extrac and sbiord Sater from a salty
ered 1a Che took 30% and avatiable Co the prank.

RESIDUAL SOBIIN CARBONATE: value chat fndtcutes he sodium baserd fa vates due to che loss
OF calcium and msgnesion lens fron She water By ThOLf reaction heh bicatvenste ard

KINIART AKDALS: ary artiodscey] sama of the subordes Numinancts, che members of which chav
eco rd sine Sd Ee el Tn SIR RE 0
ped 10 8 Co Setcton of 3 Frebd . :

SUT TORK coscarning forciliser salts and coapeund fereiiisers: ue index of Che extent Co

SATURATION INDEX un entiaate of carbonate precipitation tron frrigation wacer a8 o function
1 ogres OF Calcio comtonsee siearation of eh sot! solocion.

SCHISTOSOMIASIS (PINaTE(abia): + diaease cassed by {ncostacion of the body wich blood (likes
01" he am Scniatosoms. Tecese: Tutersctiare Mores Snail. Yates biter of water.
petites

SHDN STS WIDE TEST. Lbocaory aechd of decrainiog {yen seisemncs of

SODIUM ABSORPTION MATIO (MA): a racks for soil extracts and tecigacion water wid to expesss
Che Celacive acrivtty of Sebi ore in bare Testis with soll exer 1+

JE
Copier, uh a 8 Clod, prism, Crum or gran ie
So ROT: + sistance or sstorial WIS cons wit by malty Lee pect

--- PÁGINA 175 ---
S01 CHUSTING: so crue sce formed as 3 cms of compaction 4¢ cho Lamodiae muace de
praises eal gti apo oy py ole]
ut Te on Ta TE PLT 2 TLD

S01 S0UTION, ce seo soucton sxtcing fn ewilibein veh o soil at + particular
re Sain

SOTLAATEE: dec of unter sealable dn che co som from eslder cae, sow, ox tigation
ly Tl RR Ses Thee

SOTUATR RUTNTLLL th sma. of vor chat. mat. be. dose er unis quit of ure ate in
re tater eves a Severely ects mace Tr fen
eo ore ace 4 Seches Simei a whorl errs to Sh sh
aviation] matric and oenotic potentials.
roe ta a5 hd EE SE ele here

BL Ty r—————
Sovitcgict proseecn:

ATI MDRNENS: chemicals aed co ate 1 onder to fare cesttn sotlwcer proercen
Tech sessing (SAL ace By Contig § Ch 15 he conte] ar Hon

an ssctsiemn por sore
PA eis)
fired chy
SA shim
omar

--- PÁGINA 176 ---


--- PÁGINA 177 ---
fbeol 1. Technology of chemcal, phreica and biological ame loacion of detaristated sofia.

LE ry rrr pf ee Sree]
Koper 3% nay 19, Cabra

Aah 1.7. Whmbla 01. 0d Bhavan GP. Some ceeevations o the ates of grovmbvter cable

Bn oT ET len, FRSC Tatra sup on ho Bealepment dn dhe Feet of Babe
Ares SUT A etme IST aus of Servet, as Cot. 3. Sheds

Aceves WE. Sealy LH. and Yous GL. festa of sot msc potential prodaced with tv sale

IT" ™epucias. on sLint water pentium an esis Subd oF Sheers ime 8 SA
Ess

Agency to atesnationt Developme. acer enptests, development smd dtsene fn the ropes:

BS rE akin. Toate, parcnen 1 bese, Vesingtns Be

Agency fox Taternation Developmen. Vacer 4nd mas beslth, (7.5. Weuskin of aL.) U5kID,

IE Rapircaen of eves Voisin oe.

Mme Be, Kempe VoD, Bakdec Go snd Wiaxt KA. too of wpe tones Co Lover che sediim adsorp

Retr ibe hy altel Cg Es

Anat V. Govabente rseutces of Pekiatan. Vater ad Rover Developmen Ascher, bors.

Ea

mer 5.0. The scudy an npeovemet of soi peducsivity der plas ansels and open Field

1585" conten” etna Repo So ABER a S01 FO,

AEBS. fnrtcas Publ Bealeh Association — Stasdasd ethos foc the Emission of Sates snd

10007 arroraer. Tok Beton: APA AAR Bot inaton BE 100 1:

TP

i

steal acer hesorces Gunetl. Quilts apects of farm water supplier. beprinent of

frickin ay "

Ayers 15. am Beasaon Rb (adn). Wikcaces da che upper ance Ava Res Bask a selacion co

A comma pekinese ison etn Tneiontt Seach RN BIE

Ayers 0. a best 04. ar galt fo sgriculeute. HO Lecigation nd Sestge Pape 9,

ed es 5 5

ste Wn Coop wnt sateen an uncer quality. Saline sosceol a Kamel. PAO Frsjece

16 ber Rime To ben ”

Back U. sod Ranke. Compacison of chemical bydeapeology of chromate pestasula of Florida

HE “Ine Ean eT Seen

hate 0. snd Bonet Be San Ross efit {rvigation saky. Hal Report by own 4nd Cad

fri ere

Beltran 34. Seaton ed ceclamtion of sal-atfucted otle, Merdonas Ares, Spain. Publication

Flo reeves i tei

Secosceta 1. Salt oletance of plasce. 150A gsfenleal Tafocmacion ellectn 20. 73 5.

Be

Socoacot L. Sal tolerance of fut comp. 0h Apeiculural Information mltin 392 8 5.

jh

Buco b snd Aves B25. Slopiog sesdvoda. Ta: Calforaia Aeekcultace, Rovesber 1935, 8 0.

Spee bond irom arses sats on ake stints stad std

--- PÁGINA 178 ---
ie

BE Arientrune, Agriouteurss sesesteh Service mtotse 10 5 poe
Becsaesa 1. snd Francots LE. Gomactaons of drip, fuccow and spriakier ieigation. Soil Science
[Citi
TTR ar Fightin and dratuage waters: Boil Sei. Soc Amer. Proc. DIOL.
Day erp ——
1975 hin Gausy drip derigacion Agron. Jo SC810e
Boreas Lu, Fowcots Li. 1nd Clark RA. Ingecaccive stfaccs of saiakty ad feetlity on
[EAE pA en HR
Brasein L. nd apart LL. Pato of ai tolerance. oe. Re Plast Pte 352-16
Beso 1. Concrete corcnton - Concrete protection. Bngacla desde of Sience, ubspst. 00
[LEY
Moghan 1... tables 1. 1nd Spee G. Etfccs of Lssigaion wise composteion on exchangeable
I iii acston of TAARle wot ik sehen THESES
Bower. Salt bance, teetuaton afticioay snd deatnage denlgn. er. Soc. Civil Ingisears
1969 (ASCE), Proc. 95(IRL):153-170. see deste oe
Row Ce, Opec. und Tock 3, Sodium hsard of Ligation ware sre intlvenced by lsu”
Bn a i a i LS
Bou Cy Opa G. smd Tucker 3. tootson salt profiles md alfa grouch an intlosnced by
BE heat we a IR Te eR! SGA!
0 Catt EE TIL glen of siete carvers teraction opr
Jot Cut, ULC Lo. ain Gt. snd Hepes HG. fo dnd of th cendecy of Cah to precipi
[oct hier asst Soghocagadi Srey
ITT ini af meee ele 1a + yong sraced ofcourse drip Setitios- Prec: eeond

Ioereae Bi Congren, bon Signs Eaforeias pr eben
FL ig pap ———
1575" idamce. aricuicaral Vater maasgemene 21145-168 ee
Burdon 8. snd Safad €. Bar-el-Aa: To great haea spring of Mesopecamts. (AD Seudy). J.
BET aan eS:
firey ty pe o——
ores md Seer G8. Gichm ecto fn. co sents sls of ier. 3.
TRE "Gliorasd, Biviaian of Anricutraral debences Po eres frie ©
Clg of Trt. Gly of From Tourn Prtostues Fog. apes by th chy of Tras,
LY TT pe——
fier Rt pr pared wl hy ely
Contd de Recursos Bidintico. Flas de Deasesiie Sammie 7 Social Yodeid
ite £4. Triton ich tem fn Bball, alten teprs by esa and Sty

--- PÁGINA 179 ---
wn fro Some Lapercanc Come of cho Tames Arab Republic. TAO Project: ONOP/TAD/YEN 73/010.

Devan H.C. et al. Tetigation water quality Lo che Yenso Arab Rapublic. Report by Said and acer

578" Gotta secelon, Cltial Mriealearal Rercirey Srgacisacion. oNGE ADT 73/010. 3 5.

Dot J. gd Teel 1. uIcaL ud chanical neshod of sot snd water mais. TAD Satis

Detentn 7.4. (s) Recunaclon of alt affected sole fn Tog. AL Rlicarion to. 1. ger

Dielonsn 2.5. snd do Ridder B.A. Scud of the sel and vater movesent 1x the Bol Guind Folder,

[csr fa

Dislenas 7.0. and Teatford B.D. Dratonse osciog. TAD Gerdgation and Tesinage Paper 26. TAD,

I Gee

Dleloman Pub. ot als eutnage dunige fuccors - An Bapce Coonultation ox Orstoage Benin Face

1555" Core, 12735 ockaber 1975, TAD Trvigacion sod Diskosts Paper 39. FAO, Boma 32 po

DLOCeich G. and Kilakos J. Grovaduater sly do che Wessara Plain fn Lastora Croce, Gesece.

1571" Working Document fo. 16. 7ADI SAL SE 2S 17.

Donaldson D.k., Arers B.5.. alts K.t. sod Cebeal £. ss of gh bocon sevmge stflsent on golt

57 te lal Sn Ca eas of. enti TER SRE

Doneen 10: (+0). (uality of ator for irrigation. Proc. Conference on Quality of ater for

TOS Erelintiee itt oF California. ater esarces Cesers Conteibation 15. S08 5.

Donen 0. ater quaicy fo griclCure. Dparcnnt of esbgacion, Sdverasy of Clttorns,

Doseen 1.0. inter quale soguiremests for sgricultore. Hactsasl Symosiun on Qualicy Stasdacée

BE He ML ER SR DS SA

Bonen Lig, IECIBAEAOn Practice and wwEer managemst. TAO rctgation sed Destnage Pape 1. Rome.

[ar

Bonecn 1.0, and Veatcot Dt. Lecigation practice sod vater management FO reigacion and brat

BE per 1 Te

Boosenbos J. and fasssm Ak. Yield cesponse to water, 140 lecigstion sud Deatnage Paper 3.

1575 mei

Boosenbes J. and Frudee 6.0. Cotdelines for pesdtceiag cop water comicenents (evised). 143

TT mon and Deataage Foper $0. Rome. 143 p-

Toa "Seite bndroteny Siostinizs. : Ha

Bute Gk, Pevnington DA. and Toroer 7. Jr. Crrigation of a solution to skliatey problems of

1980 © Lae Skin. 10 shally Tn Vaceriourses sad Bevervotse, Abe Tecach (od). he arbor
Sele, pr asthe!

DR Bullscis to. 130-65: bpbreloptc Dace, 1965. Caldforeis Department of Sater Resescees,

Eaton 70 Defictency, toxicity snd sccomlation of boron Lo plate. 1. Agcic. Res. 9:207-277.

Ie

Eaton 70, Significance of carbonates In Lrrigatin vaters, Soll Science 69:123-130,

5

Bekentelder YG. Principles of water quality munagenent, CBI Kb, Co, Sassschusetia.

Toi

--- PÁGINA 180 ---
6 -
Eckateta Y. J. Wydrol. 36:163-176.
ised
Eig C1. aod Bernstein L._ Foliar saworpeice of sadtim snd chiocide ss a factor in spriskler
1339" “it iuacion. proc. duer. Soc. Roreic. 1. Torbi1-470.
Eiromencal Taprovement Agency. Now Mexico Pubite tater Supplies Chomicel Bats. Report by
TTA ar Tangiy Regelation Section, Kavitormuncal Inphovencas Agency ew BexicsBesiih
pr Sn yes
EP Process destan maou for Lund Crencaent of wastewater. U5 Eaviromental Froceceion Agency
Ej Se hel Lam in 8 hey sal ccomtacn se ote cud by coe nd
B55" rect in the Siane-anieal mpscens Fresteseive tater Techuiots (Ferman Srent
THER) 50-552.
Bust GX, Dufisiag osmotic pressure fa salinity problems, Proc. 12h ISCCT Congress, Marte.
BE TT
TAD. Groundsater Research Project, Lover Manis of the Rio Grands de San Miguel, Aston 11: dro
360 Terie hui nd heal Coeacesiacie of Maer. epert Hos FADS SIS! ad,
FAO. Land sod Unter Resources Survey. Naurcion, Final Report, Volume IV - Geology and Hydro
13650 lets: Mevore So Taslsri Tor be HAG. Rom
TAO. Vator Nanagenent Seudien 1s Che Gunra Lrcigacion Area. TAD Report to Turkey No. 1915. TAO,
jE
TAD. Study of ater Resources 1a the Chad Bota. AO/UNCR Unesco Special Project No. 1600/-3S.
156 "laa 1
TAO. Teeigation Development Plan: Lover Sire Valley, Moisi Sapore by Lockvood Survey Corpora
T3700 ian Le Toone. Report for TABINORNAL, henen E111 Lima and Fodrotony
PAD. Usa, Woulust, Sonat asd Lomact Rives Bustos: Geseral Flan. Techical snes: 1. Physio
19708 logy and fivolory “Raport by Eegineeeing and hover Developastt Conmatiants, $1seurs
KEEL, VATE SHS 10 Reker pee S0Re
FAD. oqtes sur Lew Corces oc ten caus dass 1a Pisine dos Conptves ec lo Diparconent do Nord
1570c outme ed Vobame 11 TEI TAD hepart Ho 7ab/SEL LH AALS. Taos Romer
15760 Humara. Volumen 111: Widtolorts 1 Clinstoionies « Midrogesionia ¥ coolopta. aeticads +
I Togender ta TAD Reporc: TAD) SY 88 /FERL D3. FAD, ome
TAD. Kad Katosbad Tecigation FeasibLLLCy Stedy, Afghentatan (Appendie TED). Report Ho. AGLI
fa rg “ or
FAD. Nations Semtoar on er Management snd Control ak che Fara Love. FAD, Bghok.
FAO. broje do développeneac agricole de a Platoe de sorondsva, Nabuguscar. Climcologls -
13720 Ardeolonia. Resort by Crovpement ARI-SATEC ESSER, 1973. AD Report ho. LAPTG 0.
PAD. Ouerelt Study of the Nessses Plata. Repore ou Seuty of the Hater Sescurces and thelr
To7ic Eaplottation for Tecisacion in Eebcers Crete, VAG Report ho. AGLIBPIGREIST:
FAO. ovestigation sed Feasibility Study of se rigation Profect south of Laks had. Rapest by
TOTS A Vhchonata & Parineee, London: Report ho. AGLLESNIR/AD. TAD, Romer
FAD. DeveLopment snd Wanasoms of Water Sevoutces, Jamaica, Rio Minho - WIIk Rives Baia Aves
Tord "Halle ST apart Bon ALO 07512. a, heme
FAO. tmprovensoe of Iecigation Taciilcles through Grosnduacer bovelopmanc. Gutaba Irtigscion
[EJ pS MT Re ge oy A DE TH

--- PÁGINA 181 ---
ER
a
Ti Ere ei
ppp oR —
EE
SRP
i i ep ti, pis le rs cs nie
TE ET EV SAT RE
Ace:
it eg rm iis: 0 al mies ss, i rn, Rp
tr, fp te 4 1 ch Sc. ts,
1972" The Nigh Dam, fia: Internat. Symp. oa ew Developaeats in he Field of Bale Affected
RE EE RT TE AE
ie eh ot lm ns 1,
Ht SS EE
a mt Teh im oe et 8 St 1
ed non ea. i hy me dt pm, ie
we a i . Eves rat ics st: rs:
it 5 es mbt so ty i i rt,
BE —
ar 4, ling i com ee ari ls os ico loa
to SR
EE hn I CE I TL ST TA
ei, trom otis esac fez a oe mh
Te J EE LT
ee ss oh st © ion se cai 1 Sts i. i
Fp pa
B= PL To, Se I LT
rn SE

--- PÁGINA 182 ---
et x. . cara

ikke Cot, ad Tiled 2.6. Toxtonts 1s cate from comtntasted we acer. Sterianry asd

7 © ntesion ia) hat 1983.

ota G1. Guidelines for coclmation of salt-atfecteé sols, Proc. Tatyr-tmericsn Salinity

BC LL Toei oberon Sarees Woctcor 111 eeemser 199 pe
BE

often G3. ct al, Salt tolerance of cor fo the Bute. Galiforsia Arieuitore 11 y=

BE ta

oad 0.0. snd pms 7. Coll cosuiremnt for psteacion of swbeatls by prinary cation

[tag re oy Sth gH

Bughes Bd Benen 3. Fife of salinity 1 water spies on greetbosse rose proecion.

fora Re et

fama As, Beln A. ad Witchaoli A On sent vata on he Upper Waban Sandstone utter 13

[Er fe wt

Jacobson T, sad Adams RN. Sak and ALLE 4n ancient Mesopotamian aprieulare. Senco 811351

acaba G. smd 411.1. Grommets sesoces of ive Lad. Suress of Mineral Resources,

[EER gS re

Seselo J (0). benaage seinetoles snd szpliations 15: Tories of field drsivets wd sates

[HEE (narra

Kobayashi J. Chmical fovescigation on ives vatocs of southeast Anatic covtrien = Tata:

FT rine Troms Seienes fos Goce Tosti, spe 07-E:

Korags FLFik. nd bei. influence of partied sodium and masesion sataration on che

TO" LUelCLursl CURITIGy or Clay colle. Ben Internacional Gosgrens of Soil Science.

Kober 0. Ic. Cotons-fortow scigation. 150 Soll Consesvacion Service. Last 0.

Linattor Gr. he smslyrial control of snticoeeosion wake Creceent. I. Serica Satormris

fry th

Lo 1p. bgricwiursl uetination of sage offlont aed shades dn smvocaced Mbography.

HL aE AR TLR a, Le

Lance Ak. 114 Darsagues Hardens kik. Vertical recharge to 8 Cotiond Hratone seus (0

fri Rel poy th aE oA

Licreas 49k. ok al. Trabajo de tavestigacie deerrolladon_on +1 Bstrits do Rego EL bo

BE “UL, Sonora. Ta arcs wemrenton Tetoies Nn Jo resets Conrad be bistiess de
pieeutiatiat

Lowe 1.6. (+f) ant sn vaste mangement akacaatives Av Ao Sctnce, Mishig.

Name 7%. Sul coerunes of plata. Tn: he Tundhook ot Piss Seance 1a Agriculture. 88.

FEE a er

RS SR SEER :

one £7. smd tata CJ. Geo alt Gols Garren sesosaenc. 1. ievigaticn sd Desiasee

B55 ieee, ck GSCI TLS Peoemdin For 175

Nase Po a offen Gd. Senet of Cora at serious growh stages Cliforets ATiEultore

ST. dy ha 1983:

Nacosia ad racuars. oer alin project Tessthility separe (ieee). Aged 973, Loken.

--- PÁGINA 183 ---
Hamm A. and Deucscher KL. dpdeogescheatstey of a calerace-corcaintes aquifer sear Lakeway,

[Cripps rE

Harsh A. Sater sme by drip and speiskle reigacad avocados relaced to plant cover, svsporacian,

B70 nt i perature. eal Scand Tnkerations 31s Congres, an Gren, GoiToris:

1568 Drainage Paper No. 41. FAD, Rams. 157 5. :

Mazer B. and Vesiagen 8. Th. Hot sprigs of Ruedesia: their sable gases, dsacsapic and chesical

T5re" Comperieion, 3. trl ThE.

Maar Bat sl. Sorthern Kalahart graméusescs:  fndrologte, Laotrople and chemical studies at

TOT" Seamer socowanas 3. parol Sorter aoe.

Heluokin PLB. Water engineers, development and dissases fn che tropics. 95 Agescy fo Tater

1075" Liciondi Development Department of Stata, Gasviveton 5.

Kin TE oC ah Unt nd ban Sei U5 ene for Totrnationl Seslognet, epariaant

MikkeLios D.5. and Brandon UM, Diageonts of sine detictsacy fo rice. lat foil snd Plast Tssue

1983" rising, Guiveceies of Callforaia, Division of Aticeltorsl Science Mulls 1875. 0 5

Mohamed Nuk. snd Jmar F.Sadtim carbonate formation do Terhash ares 4nd passIBIALEy of biologi

T97Eal deuiialiescion. Proc: intareat. Srp. on aw seveiopaants 0 the Field of Sait
Rte SETS veces "STE Miotrery of sericuieure, Gro. 7. M46.

Ho Tectommcion Project, denial Report for Mons Heclametion Project uly 971s 1972 Ot

rr Rc A te

Haharams 1.5. Katee sualyads and creacnent techniques to control cmsster plugging. Proc. rete

a A Se her re

BE a eo Tomencal Protection Avuncy Kasbingion BE. port hor THADTD-0T3. SFE 5.

Ti es BET :

T3787" Appendix B. Water Resourcas anh Ori) isation (Growaduatar)e er

Mattonat irrigation atagsteation. Maca Data Files. OCLiamn, veto City, Philippines.

Hattonai Kesoarch CovactL of Choate. Lund fof vaste asasgensot. Heoc, of aa latermational on

Ness Rr, dress 5. 200 Kastaatis AN. Salinity sppeaissd of soil snd mater for mccesstul

tg TE A ec hei fem

Wiskuon 8.7. smd Conn 0.8, Apriakling wich aaiey whi vatar cao cosne peabioms. Bish Sstenca

17s" Ser Tapdeiaant Station (2) a1 61.

1975 Agricultural Sesescel Station. Tastitece of ATFicultaral Besearch, Soll Survey Report
fronts

Ogtibee ¥, snd Anduress lok. Easlocstocy dellling foc scoundeatec in Seatecs Sokala Praviace

[pi Tretpe neers a AF fp eg tH WR A

Ohta 1. Decommatasance Lavest gation of dischatze wd water fualiEy of the Maton Kiver. US

Tose" alien Sacvey Crean ho. 332. 16 pt

--- PÁGINA 184 ---
OMEN. Lavestaris, evaluacifn y wo tacional de los racucses satacales de 1a Costa. Offician
1973 Maciansl de Tvalsaciin do Recutsos Nacutsics (NERD: Repiblica del Torus Guna Sel
Hic Fiaco, T9717 Cuenca det Hi Teas 19711 Coen do kbs Comma Nogen, 1973.

Outer 1.5. and Bonades 1.0. Various indices for evaiasting the affective salinity snd sodicity
B17 ar Telia ion waters. la: Proc. kareationst Su11mey Costarsnce, Lakbeck, Terses 167

20 hagust 1976 pp 1-16.
1980 atty of Califorais Cooperative Extension, Fail 1983, Mo. Sor pp. 1h
Oster 3.0. sod Scheser # Inteiceacion ar dnfioenced by drcigation water quality. Seid Sei
[Din
Outer 2.5., Willardson LS. and Hoffam C.J. Spriskiing and ponding technigues for reclaiming
[irr ely re
Okan A. Project 3 ator Vell Ding snd Contraction in Yemen Acad Repubiic. Mindat of
1578" agriculture ad acer, Sater Aesosrees Beveiopaent Depsrincet, Kinghen of Sout: Makin.

SE ee heh Repbtie
Page AL. Fate and effects of trace elements in sewage sludge whan plied to sgriculismal
ISTE Laie] I oni ommsaeat Froceck on Agtocy Report Mo. EPAGTO/E-TL0: 108
Palfual KV. and Gandhi A. Effect of saidadey, SAR, Care ratio fn Ircigation vater, snd sail
HR ep CL a ie
Parca 1.3. Comsideracionss sobee 1a saliotiad del custo de Ln Conca del Lago de Maracaibo. fn
1576 oruades de Togenieria Bideiuiica, Rarscatbe, Yosueie:
Pasternak D., Tversky ¥. 1nd do Marach ¥. lrsigation expesiaents vith brackich water. Report
TOTS GRAD 51-75, ben Garin Doivarstcy of Foe Nepers Tora.
Pays Bk Qut1jans 1. ad Latoree C. Evirommestal fuccopos in a study of the origin of saii-
I Pe remainder Ta ELS Nextel Vatiey, merior 3. Rybeots 111201315:
Pascaon GA. Tolerance of crops to exchangeable sodium, SOR Informecion ullectn bo. 216. 4 po
5
Perkina Ph. The cortonton resistance of covcrete - sanitary engineering stsutuces. Concrete
rpg et eg
Piebery LT. Sisk Lectpacton, TA Agcialoucal Development. Pape 83. 1A, Rome.
Pract PP. Quality crteerts for race elements in frricacion waters. California Agricultural
TE Eaperioent sestion. 165.
Prichard T.L. ot al. Relationships of irrigation vater salinity and sekivates salfaity. Calté-
ETT Sree Ba ret wheat
Puisvekd 3. and Gheo H. Grousduater study of 4 volcanic ten ses Benbueg, va, Indomesia. J:
jr hei 8 SP
Andee Lr. Je. at al. Salt 1adex for fertilizers. Soll Science 35:201-208,
Bute WA. snd Bowell DL. The fatisence of mugoesiua fo satine sad sodic sella: A speciilc
Bee lio eon Sle TELA
1966" cancral Quasasiand. Mullecin 10, Water Research Tousdation of Avectuiis, Rew Seach
1955 Coachella Valley of California. University of Califorsia, Bilgardla 24(4):63-31.
Ahcades 1.0. Leaching roquironsnc for exchangosble sodium contsal. Soll Sei. Soc. mer Proc. 32:

--- PÁGINA 185 ---
Tsien 21. at of water or rrieac ie, ot Scene 327-28

Bost 3:0. Beatnge fo satiny conceal. Deatongs fr Aprculinre, Yao ShiLfgarte 5.

TO hae sie. aon. ongearn Woe 17, or oer:

Bhoaden 30. Potential for unio aatine ageiewlacal dcstasge vases Le Lesigucton, Proc. Sager

1977 Adguannt or Leeishciin amt raiiese. MSR, Behe, Nevsta: S022 Tals 1917: poe SS

TORE" Tihual eaters pe vincial Goatorente a back nalieacin of ecor ed SOLE senich aod
Rinses. Aber, Camda. 3p. 113135.

Shoades 1.0. tauetg atine deeinge satis or Lesigacion h sxrasepy o reduce sai onsing of

eg vr veri an Te pr
a Car ap er Ri

ee pechiiey chtenencs 5 Praonart ation Hoek,” .

Boater 3:0. and clark. Sampling pescuduce snd chemical chute 1 ve sc che iced Scsces

B50 aii Chtracit To racemes Sel agieciod Sok ud core en boprts 08
Sy Sh an

Ronde 3.0. snd serra 5.8. Annan the MEANS IE of sates Lo Ligation: Thsescicat smd

a  ppronia. Tor Fapnats of Balides sed Aleiintts- Fa Btls Bute 11
rasa gery

Shosdes 3.0., Ont 3.0., Topealems £0, Tac 1. and clark 7. isintaing che seis burdens

EHR ER Ar Ea rR IE

Richa L.A. Bagnte and inpovoneut of ease and alsa utie. 190A Agsiculcurl fandbock

frig sah A SA he ER

Roba 11. Tocaase  conhctivty <€ tctguehn waar duc sprtolice, Aon. J. $5(U):

Kian 16. Urpin pues Solicit dn Tapeial ey atalia. Gators Ariens.

Boch wat, Chochinte ct trscage satue: foods o acroiaue, dss von sompémncalses poe

a Lu Teqution Tebe ov spevins STetogtens Tov Tomas HERON, Pore, 38

BR PS a ast h :

Sand K.1. Bonde pbogt-lopiaue de est dn ai. Toes Report. Bo. L0SS/ME.RB/CY. Pacis.

Sager 3.4. Tectgatcn syscon robb 1cactn sds ~ Augers [rELpecon Scheme, Blivin, Pe

TE Lik aa emo es The ve

Sgr AP Toa bry 8 bin rd eee 10 ier an need oeikie sis

Sama A... Tarun B.. Pcht 4. ard Amccas 1. Barco Lestgaioe practice, Techical fort

[CH yey rng wy

BT hoy opende, wate ae, ved wel eHLELey PATERDE Deed el Bneatets MLL TOL

Sav A 4 a1, Tretgatiss_prscises Le relate in crop rospense vain ue and ssid lic

TR LD Cian Toa Fea part to 5 anne ap fo pe

Schkel Ca. Th Leflomscs =f reread Lic crocotgatlck sc isan grech. 1. Juss $5.

[CT wing Repke

--- PÁGINA 186 ---
ie
Schnfield Kk. A catio la govecsing the squtlibeium of cations fn cho soll solucton, lacer-
To ikinat Congress of Aplied Chemistry. Proes 11 Neseing (London) 3:25 301
Setlasie T.G., SEichs G. and Kenbioh A, dopratesl of hush River water ality for frrigacion 15
To" LAE Rude Mean. TAD Troject Report, TO, Romer 10 5.
Shatobery 1. and Letey J. Response of soils to sedic and saline conditions. Bilgardia S21).
Shathavet J. Mansganest of Aecigation wih brackish water. Ix: Sell Saltndty under irrigation.
TC STE and 0. SeThRat Cade): Eeciogieal Seudien 319801. Springer terios.
Siar 00, ct al. Technical Balletta, (vesueland Dparsaene of Primary Todoscrics, Gensland,
on ati,
Stason Coke, Corey 3. and Summer ME. Sifect of varyiag Ces ratios 0 yield smd composition
TT TL aa a hd Nikon (tings sativa). Communications in S011 5 iance 420
Satha 8.K, snd Singh NT, Sale distribution around acts of whest undes diCfarest rampizacion
To a ie nd SBE
Soil Saprovensor Comsictue. esters Fertiliser Sande. Califorris Fercilizer Associacion,
To RT
Supper VE and Kardon LT. (ade). Hecreling crested municipal wnscevates and sludge heough
TSE Eortit and crop land Fenserivania Beate Dnivecerty Prose, Femmyivanie:
State of Guar, Analysts of ieeigatton ater, Sadi el Aralk, Souch (tar. Sacer aboracory.
[EHR a
State Water tasouccas Concrol Mosed. valuation of agricultural Lrvigation projects usiog res
ere hirane peepee by Bois Sociosering Eorporsties (or the SFFice of Hover
RetyTeieg, Gatramnre, Caliiornias
Seyltanon Y. and Orpbanos PL. Irchgscion of Sosmouti oraoges vieh asiine water. Technical
00 Mts Bele pres AGeLculiaral Besoaeen oatitore, Ficoste:
Suacen DL. Relation between alc sod Sobtun Adeocytioa Batis (SW) aud an alternate sarod of
TEL ictmiting San af soit or Sratnage waters. Sati ei. doer Amer. J: 4510H9-413.
EER
Subcomsnion V. Chenicel ond auapendnd-sedisent. chasactaristics of rivers of Ladle. J. dpdrol
Taji dreigation catlustar sumsgencat. Hacer Scicace Repose Yo. 4011 (197576 tama Sepore).
Tung. freigacton tatlvater sanagement. Hates Seieuce Report to. 4016 (1976-77 Anal hepore)
Taylor Will Gosceste Techoalogy and Practice, Sth ition, NeGrav-HLLL, Syd. 450 5.
Inien 5.9. snd Oates 2.0. The dotersationsl system of units aad Its pareicular appideation to
FH A lini riveted tia A iy ate
OE Ld Tuli rns Corman Tas Beaks of Eacuiaine 1h Land Trasesest oF Sasiceatar,
ha pe narnia) Frupotion eld Fonts Saguse 1978, Nesaver ew Tampanice:
Tijack Tk, beftsortdarias of seer supplies. Suteciines 21:26. uly 1983.
Fillo RLF. Eavliomencal gutdel foes for Sevigation. US Wea sud ch Siosphers rogram sad 15
Tat iis for Tatscastionss Develapasnt. Sew Tork nranical Garden Cory Arhoretea,

--- PÁGINA 187 ---
Tipton and Kaladach Ti. FessiDLLLEY of the Kates riculeseal Project. 1971 Programme Sevelor-

frp

Tuokne Segionsl Gates Dstt. Opracions Manual Gor th DISCce. Tolumne gions acer

DIC A. and sastats Np. Calcium amerition of the sogsrbest. Commications fn Soil Science

TT a lam Saerivion 7009 a0ra0s,

PR Lp r——————"

[HIRE y

Epes Seaen Buren of Neclumation, Coseet Namal, 6h Litem, Wshingion 5. 350

nites States duress of Reclamation sod the South Delta ater Agency. Etfacts of the Conceal

Tos aller Brujeee pon che. Sovehera Deis eter Supply, Lacramento sun Joatuis Rr
Deter, Guittoretar

Entted Seaton Geological Survey. ater Sophy apr Xo. 1950, Uashisgion 06. 316 5.

nites States Gaological Surver. uality of surface waters of the Gaited Staten. Sater Supply

[Era

peed sate Golesi Survey. Cooter recor of Ancien a ch smbarls me
Sorkes Fake Pegs haneican Samots Sater Resources Tove ion 5

ntrrstty of Coiioraie Comities of Galante; Gutdelies or istrprstatin of water

LUBA Salinity Laboratory Sta. Saliicy Management in Agriculture (in preparation)

can Boor JH. (ualicy of Lreliation water, lstes of se and practetion of long-term affects.

FE eR ph AR

an Wooo JW. Bifeet of capilisey flow on selinieation and the concept of critical depth fox

T330™ aarmnivg. froin Sept: Taper fo 4slhe Tn: Troe Intersationst Serine Voraten,
aay Tore. al bisection we. £5, Gesentnsens 13. 400-100.

faa Leven Jt. Ce). deport o ihe Seis on Sakaogstn Ln Becion Go Techation and Sa

VAN'C Leven Juke and WnhdRd Wok. Surface feTgation rh saiioe vate on a beavy clay sold In

1508" Eh astrin Valley, Tussin. Tent itote {or Land and Seca Waoscensas escerch
Fede Batietin So. 3 wha lante 3. Anrieultors, Gagestomo 15 301-303.

an SehiLfgsacée J. Berssteis L., Bosdes J.D. snd heilins SL. Ieeigation mensgenent fr salt

I NL SL Teriaation’ sna Seatnage Division, ASGE 1001321 3300

Faraeien Lo and doling Gib. Lacaiised drrigasion  Besigs, installation, operation and evalua

UDA. Befect of tuhcueld water of different salinities on soll exndteians and crop growth. best

[EE RS Ry wir hr

kt : . i

Mestcot D4. uncaclogztog awd selisiey conditions 1 Sistess ecto) de Sieg 0. | (Gachabasse

ives METAS. Separe of project inorIHAOTROLTTRIO05 1, homer 1.

00 Touse ot STL Loma: Nothols of wastoueter trata sad MeAIEh safeguarin. Moport of 3 0

T075 ™ atisng of Tapecre: Teh Bap Hor 317, Wh, Goneen-

VID. Blslosical conteod of vectocs of diseave, Sixth emrt of (he 0 Fapart Gumirise on

--- PÁGINA 188 ---
Vilcon Lv. The qualiey of water for Lrvigation. 55 dep. of Agric, Tech. Bul. bo. 963i1-40.

ty

Wilcox Lv. Boros dsjury co plaste. USO Bulletto Ho. 211. 7 5.

156

Wilcox Ly. Factors for culealaciag he Sodium Asorpe:on fatto (S42). 05 Saltetey Lavorstory

15 Nimes ere

flees LY. Tables for calcvatiog Gm pe values of aiers, 8 Salintey Laboeatsy Ho

Stigon Li. Bate G., aod Bowe Cub, Hfect of Mcarvotate on MACabIEY of water for ripe

IE eR ee TT

Wildes KA. Terigation vith alice growdvator as a ratogy for saliasty control in he Shep

Tak pircor Region of Borihert Victoria, Awrra.ia. Ini Suiedty fn deter Resources snd
Reever Eu Trench (ob Awe arbar Stones, po. 15200

Vila Ck. und Beckece PE. Weictpal offal for Arrigscion. Lastatans Tech, Foundation,

[ET eh "

Worthington 8. (sd). hetd Land Lorigacion So Develop Coustriast Pavicommental Problems and

Bett. Ferganon Press, Gators. £635.

re Colluge. Vads Duless, Jordan - dn Sx-pont valuation. Use College (niveceicy of London),

[EE PA tat we

Tatoo 5, Buntors E. sod asda Vo (ede). Acid Zone reigacion. Leological Staties Volume 5,

TTS ringer virion, few Tor.

--- PÁGINA 189 ---


--- PÁGINA 190 ---


--- PÁGINA 191 ---


--- PÁGINA 192 ---
FAO IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE PAPERS
TC MN —
HE
§ Soemiiieln
{ Feiwel,
§ EER
§ PETE ers
te
§ Ere
§ Et
§ Ee
rR
Re ere
§ Emre
§ Eemmmly
i
3 gems
3 BENS.
Ee ern
le Eo
i Enns
§ EER ers
27. Agro metearologica hed stations, 1978 (E” F* 5)
a

CEE
Emin
§ Eine
§ Emer
§ Emus,
33 Ve rosponen war 1979 BL 8)
i Emm
Rr
i SEE
§ EEE
iE
i BEiged
I
§ EE rR RE
RT
J * ge
fg CEE
PE
